Newborn Baby
Congratulations on your new baby!
Baby's here! Now it's time to figure out parenthood: the feeding, the bathing, the diaper changing and oh... the sleeping! Relax, you'll get the hang of everything. Just don't freak out if adjusting to this new life doesn't "come naturally"—it can take a little longer for some than others. These first few weeks with your newborn baby are about resting, recovering and getting to know baby, as you and your partner figure out how to navigate life with this amazing new addition to your family!
At Birth
Development
Your newborn’s arms and legs are still curled in the fetal position—that's temporary. His ways of communicating? Cries, grunts, sneezes and hiccups.
Average weight for a baby at birth is 7.1 pounds for girls and 7.4 pounds for boys. Average length is 19.3 inches for girls and 19.6 inches for boys, according to the World Health Organization.
1-Week-Old Baby
1-Week-Old Baby Development
It’s normal for a baby to lose up to 10 percent of his birth weight in the first week of life—it’s just because he’s lost the extra fluids he had at birth—so don’t get nervous by the dip in the scales.
At birth, baby’s head may have looked misshapen from his trip down the birth canal, but it should have rounded out within a few days. Baby’s skull has two soft spots, called fontanels. Baby’s umbilical cord is still attached, and you’ll want to keep the area dry until it falls off.
1-Week-Old Baby Milestones
You and baby are getting settled in at home and developing a new routine. Baby should have his first outing—if you both feel ready. A walk around the block in the fresh air is a much better idea than going somewhere crowded and germy.
1-Week-Old Baby Food
A one-week-old baby is feeding on formula or breast milk around the clock—at least every two to three hours—but sometimes it can seem like more than that! Some breastfed babies cluster feed, which means they feed really often in order to boost mom’s milk supply. That’s normal; go with it.
I’m feeding baby formula. How much should a 1-week-old baby eat?
Follow baby’s cues, but about two to three ounces of formula about once every three to four hours should be about right.
How long should a 1-week-old baby breastfeed for?
We know it’s hard, but don’t watch the clock while breastfeeding! First offer baby one breast, and make sure he’s latched on well. If he still seems hungry after that breast is soft and he’s seemed to finish off that milk, offer the other one. Baby will stop when he’s full. At the next feeding, start with the opposite breast. It’s common for the feeding to take around 20 to 40 minutes but that’s not set in stone. Seems vague, we know, but that’s really how it works!
Worried baby’s not drinking enough breast milk or formula?
Baby should be wetting at least five to eight diapers per day.
What should I give a 1-week-old baby for constipation?
Doctors advise seeking a doctor’s care if a baby under a month old is 
constipated
—
not
 to treat it yourself. So make the call to the pediatrician right away.
How much breast milk at 1 week should I give baby?
If you’re pumping breast milk, your baby will likely take about two or three ounces per feeding.
Newborn Feeding Schedule
Photo: Megan Rubey
1-Week-Old Baby Sleep
A 1-week-old baby sleeps most of the day, waking every two or three hours to chow down (then, he's likely back to snoozing again.)
It’s hard to say how much sleep for a 4-day-old, or how much a 5-day-old or a 1-week-old baby should sleep, but it’s pretty typical to be about 16 to 20 hours per day. And they usually don’t sleep more than two to four hours at a time.
Waking happens around the clock because your baby still hasn’t learned to differentiate between day and night. Try to keep things bright and playful throughout the day, and dark and relaxed at night, so baby (hopefully) starts to see the difference.
Always put your baby to sleep on his back, and make sure the crib is free of soft or fluffy bedding and other objects, to reduce his risk of SIDS.
Newborn Sleep Schedule
Photo: Megan Rubey
2-Week-Old Baby
2-Week-Old Baby Development
By the end of the second week, baby should have about regained his birth weight. Notice a 2-week-old growth spurt? Babies tend to have a growth spurt around the end of the first week or beginning of the second week. You’ll know when it happens because you’re baby will want to feed what feels like all. the. time.
2-Week-Old Baby Milestones
Sometime within two to three weeks post-birth, baby’s umbilical cord will fall off, which means baby will be ready for his first real bath.
How far can babies see at 2 weeks?
He can see your face when you’re holding him close—babies’ sight at 2 weeks old is best from between 8 and 12 inches away.
Okay, so there’s a lot of sleeping going on. You might wonder: 
Do babies dream at 2 weeks old?
 While, we can’t be sure what they’re dreaming about, experts believe they probably do.
2-Week-Old Baby Food
How often should a 2-week-old eat?
 
How much should be 2-week-old be eating?
You’re on a constant loop, it seems, feeding baby when she cries. Luckily, babies tend to instinctively know when they need to eat. A breastfed baby should be nursing about eight to 12 times during a 24-hour period.
How much formula should my 2-week-old eat?
Your baby should continue to eat about two to three ounces every three to four hours.
2-Week-Old Baby Sleep
How much do two-week-old babies sleep?
Two-week-old babies tend to sleep around 16 hours a day, which seems like a lot but since they’re still waking around the clock, you’re still probably totally exhausted.
2-Week-Old Baby Schedule
Two-week-old baby activities can begin to include tummy time. Give baby just two or three short sessions per day of tummy time on the floor, so she gets a taste of being on her stomach. Eventually, you can increase the time she spends on her tummy—it will help her arms and neck get stronger. (Just keep putting her to sleep on her back.) And it could help prevent flat head syndrome.
Can a 2-week-old baby go outside? Yes! It’s up to you when you feel comfortable taking baby out, but we recommend it, as long as the weather’s not extremely hot or cold. Baby could use some fresh air, and you could probably use a short walk. If you’re concerned about strangers getting too close, consider wearing baby in a newborn carrier.
3-Week-Old Baby
3-Week-Old Baby Development
It’s common to experience a 3-week-old baby growth spurt, so be ready for a couple days with a whole lot of feedings!
Baby might be awake more often and alert than he was the first couple weeks. This sound like fun but it’s also a shock—that your former little sleepyhead suddenly cries so much! Here’s your chance to get to know baby better. Do the usual checks to figure out how to calm her: hunger, dirty or wet diaper, discomfort, gas… The more baby sees you coming to her aid when she’s crying, the more you two will bond. (There’s no such thing as “spoiling” a newborn!) Unfortunately, colic symptoms may appear around this time. Colic is when baby cries often, seemingly for no reason at all. 
Get the scoop on how colic is diagnosed
 and what to do if you have a colicky baby.
3-Week-Old Baby Milestones
Baby’s sight at 3 weeks is still a little blurry. As baby tries to focus, you may notice his eyes looking crossed. That’s totally normal for this age—as long as both eyes are moving (one doesn’t seem stuck still) and there aren’t any windshield-wiper-like eye motions. Baby’s eyes should look much straighter by the time she’s 6 months old. (If not, talk to the doctor.)
Cool fact:
 Baby now recognizes your voice, your smell and how you look.
3-Week-Old Baby Food
The answer to the question: How much should a 3-week-old eat? Well, it’s not always so simple. Every baby is different, of course. Plus, don’t you have some meals when you’re starving and some when you want to eat light?
Pay attention to baby—she’ll communicate with you when she’s hungry (crying, lip smacking, “rooting” or turning her head in search for a nipple), and she’ll stop eating when she’s not.
How much formula at 3 weeks should baby have?
You might start bumping up baby’s formula servings to three to four ounces every three to four hours. Until the end of the first month, don’t let baby go more than five hours without a feeding. Yep, wake her up if you have to.
How often should a 3-week-old baby breastfeed?
Still about 8 to 12 times per 24-hour period. Right now, baby may still be waking every three to four hours at night, but if she starts sleeping longer (yay!), it’s okay to let her, so long as there are no issues with her weight gain. But be sure you’re still always fitting in 8 to 12 daily feedings.
A 3-week-old nursing schedule can’t be set to a clock—though if you love routine, you wish you could. Feed on demand. That means responding to baby’s signals when she’s ready to cuddle up and nurse.
3-Week-Old Baby Sleep
Your 3-week-old still sleeps in spurts but you may notice the spurts getting a little bit shorter. As your baby begins to be awake for more hours in a day, continue to make daytime interactions more exciting and interesting than nighttime ones. By showing baby that being awake at night is kind of boring, you may set her up for future sleeping through the night.
How much should a 3-week-old sleep?
A typical 3-week-old baby may sleep about 16 hours per day, but remember some babies are sleepier than others.
3-Week-Old Baby Schedule
For your 3-week-old “schedule” regularity isn’t really realistic. You’re still getting to know each other! Plus the fact that he’s a little more alert now might be tripping up your routine a bit. Follow baby’s cues for when he’s hungry and tired, and you’ll be fine. It’s amazing how much your instincts will kick in and how much you’ll know what baby needs and wants when. When you don’t know, use trial and error. Every new parent does!
In other words, a typical 3-week-old baby schedule is no schedule at all!
4-Week-Old Baby
4-Week-Old Baby Development
If you think there’s a 4-week growth spurt happening, you’re probably not imagining things. Doctors say somewhere around 3 to 6 weeks old, many babies start feeding more often in an effort to pack on some extra ounces. That means you’ll be at baby’s beck and call for a few days (aren’t you already anyhow?). Try to go with the flow (literally).
How much should baby weigh at 4 weeks?
Well, those spurts are paying off! The average weight of a 4-week-old baby (aka one-month old) is 9.2 pounds for girls and 9.9 pounds for boys, according to the World Health Organization. The average length is 21.1 inches for girls and 21.5 inches for boys.
What can babies see at four weeks?
Your face! Baby’s vision at 4 weeks old is still developing, so she can still just focus on things within a foot of her. Luckily, that means she gets to gaze at you while you’re holding her. And she’s paying attention too. Feel free to make some silly faces to entertain her.
Baby sight at 4 weeks favors high-contrast patterns, so now’s a good time to introduce a mobile or hanging toy with different black-and-white shapes.
For a 4-week-old, tummy time is important. Some babies 
hate tummy time
 and basically cry throughout. Don’t let that discourage you though. Baby needs to get used to it. Keep tummy time short (just a couple minutes or even seconds is okay for now)—and try to make it fun by getting down on the floor with baby and chatting her up.
4-Week-Old Baby Milestones
Wondering what to expect from 4-week-old baby? Your baby has been working on turning his head from side to side and may even start to lift his head for a second during tummy time.
He keeps his hands in fists and brings them toward his face. Baby may even start to turn his head toward voices and noises he recognizes.
4-Week-Old Baby Food
When you have a 4-week-old, feeding still takes up a huge chunk of baby’s day. These are some common feeding questions parents have during week four.
I’m formula feeding. How much should my 4-week-old eat?
If you’re feeding formula, baby may have upped his intake to about four ounces every four hours.
I’m nursing. How often should a 4-week-old baby breastfeed?
You should continue to feed baby every two to three hours, until he’s content.
I’m pumping breast milk. How much milk should a 4-week-old drink?
The amount of breast milk baby takes at each feeding has probably slowly increased over the past few weeks. If baby’s only drinking breast milk (no formula), she probably is taking about 25 ounces per day. Divide that by the number of time she feeds and that’s approximately how much breast milk she should get at each feeding. For example, if she eats 10 times per day, she gets about 2.5 ounces per feeding.
4-Week-Old Baby Sleep
For a 4-week-old baby, sleep and waking still happens around the clock, though you may notice a larger chunk of it comes at night.
How long does a 4-week-old baby sleep?
Four-week-old babies typically sleep about 15 to 16 hours per day. How it’s split up throughout the day depends on the baby; around three daytime naps is pretty typical, with eight-and-a-half hours of sleep probably come at night (with interruptions, of course!)
4-Week-Old Baby Schedule
Interested in a 4-week-old baby schedule? Don’t get too concerned with becoming a drill sergeant (or preschool teacher!). Baby still can’t really follow a clock and will keep tripping up your efforts to create structure.
Instead, try to create patterns throughout baby’s day that could one day evolve into a more set schedule. A common routine for a 4-week-old baby is feed, play, sleep, repeat. If baby’s day looks something like that, you’re already on your way to getting into a good daily routine. Here’s an example of a schedule you might try to strive toward throughout the day.
4-Month-Old Baby Sample Schedule
Photo: Megan Rubey
Newborn Baby Checklist/Tips
Take baby to his 
first checkup
 at the pediatrician’s office, about three to five days after birth.
Make an appointment for baby’s 
one-month-old checkup
.
Sleep when baby sleeps (as much as you can).
Ask for help whenever you need it!
Give baby 
tummy time
—just a little bit for now. Three to five minute sessions, two times a day, is a good start.
Take baby’s newborn baby photo.