1 Month Old Baby
Your baby is one month old!
What an amazing first month—for you and baby! It's hard to believe how much your day-to-day has changed now that this beautiful (and confusing!) person has entered the world and turned your life upside down. Your one-month-old baby is completely dependent on you, and you're completely in love with her. You're probably feeling more confident in your mommy abilities than you were a month ago. And with good reason—you're trusting your instincts, putting baby first and reading up on 1-month-old baby development and parenting advice, which is proof enough that you're doing a great job!
1-Month-Old Development
Pretty much all baby did in the first month was sleep, cry, eat and poop, but soon a little (or… make that, big) personality will emerge. Case in point: You will probably notice your 1-month-old baby cooing and ahh-ing in the coming weeks. How ridiculously cute is that!?
One-Month-Old Baby Weight & Length
We know you’re wondering: How much should a 1-month-old weigh? What should her length (aka height) be? The average one-month-old baby weight is 9.2 pounds for girls and 9.9 pounds for boys, according to the World Health Organization.
Of course, just because your baby weighs or measures much more or much less than the average that doesn’t mean there’s a problem. Babies—just like adults—come in different shapes and sizes. What’s important is that baby’s growing and putting on weight at a healthy rate—the pediatrician will check on that at her one-month checkup.
Your baby has likely gained 1.5 to 2 pounds and grown about 1.5 to 2 inches since birth, and baby’s head probably measures about an inch larger.
Coming up: In a 6-week-old baby, a growth spurt is pretty common, so be mentally prepared! Sometimes babies feed more frequently when they’re in a spurt, so know you might have to keep up with an extra demanding baby.
Five Senses
Since hearing is developed in utero around 35 weeks, your one-month-old baby’s hearing is fully developed, and she may turn toward familiar sounds and voices. Initially, fluids in the ears affect the clarity of sound, and the parts of the brain that deal with sound processing have to develop, which usually doesn't happen until 7 months.
Baby’s eyes still wander and may sometimes cross, which could make you wonder 
How far can a one-month-old see?
 She can now see and focus on objects that are about 8 to 12 inches away. She likes black and white patterns and those in other contrasting colors. But she'd rather look at faces than anything else, so no need for fancy toys. Just hold her facing you, and chat away!
Baby’s sense of smell is developing too. She likes sweet smells (bitter or acidic thing are basically 
yuck
 to her), and if you’re breastfeeding, she’d probably be able to pick your breast milk out of a lineup, since she knows the smell and taste so well!
She loves to touch things that are soft (a cozy blanket) and doesn’t like to be held or moved in a rough or abrupt way. So keep things gentle—you probably already are!
One-Month-Old Milestones
What Should My 1-Month-Old Be Doing? That’s the question every new parent asks. While every baby’s different, it’s typical for a 1-month-old baby to still be keeping her hands tight in fists. Baby probably jerks and quivers her arms and has keen reflexes. If she hasn't started smiling already, she probably will this month—so exciting!
While you should be patient with baby’s progress hitting milestones here are a few developmental red flags you should be looking for. Call the doctor if your one-month-old baby:
Is feeding slowly or has trouble sucking.
Doesn’t blink in bright light.
Doesn’t respond to loud sounds.
Doesn’t focus her eyes on an object or follow it with her eyes when it moves.
Has a trembling jaw, when she isn’t crying or pumped up.
Doesn’t seem to move her arms and legs much.
Seems overly loose or overly stiff in her limbs.
Is My 1-Month-Old Healthy?
With babies, in general, no news is good news. As long as you’re not seeing signs of a problem, your one-month-old’s health is probably totally great. A few common health concerns of parents of one-month-olds include:
Constipation.
 Parents wonder: How often should a 1-month-old poop? The answer is around two times per day, if they’re being fed formula. But seeing how breastfed babies can go days without pooping (and be totally healthy), this one can be tough to decipher. The general rule of thumb is that if your baby’s poop comes out in hard, small balls, you’ve got a 1-month-old baby who’s constipated. 
Check out more on how to handle constipation.
Congestion.
 Babies get runny and stuffy noses often—in fact, they tend to get around 10 to 12 colds per year. Plus, there’s always the possibility of allergies and infections. If your 1-month-old is congested, 
head over here to get more info
 on how to help her breathe and feel better.
Coughing.
 In a 1-month-old, coughing is just as common as congestion. But cough medicine isn’t safe for babies this age. 
Read more on how to treat baby’s cough
 and how to know if she needs to see the pediatrician.
1-Month-Old Feeding
Your 1-month-old is still probably feeding once every two to three hours if you’re breastfeeding; once every three to four hours if you’re formula feeding. By now, you’ve probably learned to follow baby’s cues to tell when she’s hungry—you may even be able to identify her own distinct “hungry cry.”
How Much Should a One-Month Old Eat?
If you’re breastfeeding, don’t worry too much about quantity of breast milk. You can’t measure it when it comes straight from the tap anyhow! Your baby will know when she’s full by stopping, moving away from your breast or falling asleep. Soon, baby will become a more efficient feeder and will be able to get more milk in a shorter amount of time—so you may notice you spend a teeny bit less time feeding in the coming months. If you’re formula feeding, baby is probably consuming a four-ounce bottle about once every four hours.
What Can Baby Eat This Month?
Baby should still stick to just formula or breast milk—or a combo of both. If you’re wondering, 
Can a 1-month-old drink water?
 know that most doctors recommend waiting until baby’s at least 6 months old before you give her water. She gets plenty of fluids from your breast milk or formula! There may be some exceptions, so always check with the pediatrician first.
1-Month-Old Feeding Schedule
Photo: Megan Rubey
1-Month-Old Sleep
How Much Sleep Does a 1-Month-Old Get?
One-month-old babies typically sleep about 15 to 16 hours per day. How it’s split up throughout the day depends on the baby, but around three daytime naps is pretty typical, with eight-and-a-half hours of sleep probably come at night (with interruptions, of course!)
Doesn’t sound exactly like your kid? It’s okay—different babies have different personalities, just like adults do! Any sleep concerns should be discussed with the pediatrician, who can give you personalized advice, but here are some common 1-month-old sleep concerns:
1-Month-Old Won’t Sleep.
 There are so many reasons it might be tough to get baby to sleep. She could be overstimulated, uncomfortable or just want to cuddle with you. Try some of these tricks to help baby sleep, and if they don’t seem to work, then talk your pediatrician
1-Month-Old Sleeping All Day.
 Some babies get what’s called “ 
day/night confusion
,” where they mix up day and nights. Some might have an illness that’s making them sleep more than usual. Others might 
just be extra sleepy
! Try to pinpoint the cause of baby’s sleepiness and then decide whether or not it could be an issue—if baby’s otherwise healthy, eating and peeing enough, then it’s probably not something to worry over.
1-Month-Old Sleep Schedule
Photo: Megan Rubey
1-Month-Old Schedule
It’s probably not possible to get a 1-month-old on a schedule, but you can start to incorporate patterns throughout baby’s day. For example, a “sleep, eat, play” routine works for a lot of babies. Over time, You’ll find that sticking to a pattern like that may develop into a more predictable daily routine. Just remember to be flexible—things can change, and it’s important you roll with the punches. Keep following baby’s cues for hunger and sleep.
One-Month-Old Schedule Example
A 1-month-old’s daily schedule might look something like this.
Photo: Megan Rubey
If you’re worried about your 1-month-old baby’s schedule or routine, talk to baby’s pediatrician about your specific concerns.
1-Month-Old Checklist / Tips
Take baby to her 
one-month-old checkup
.
Ask the doctor about supplementing with vitamin D drops if you’re breastfeeding.
Vaccination: The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends a second dose of the Hepatitis B vaccine between 1 and 2 months old.
Schedule baby’s 
two-month-old checkup
.
Go to your 
postpartum checkup
 at about six weeks post-birth (sooner if you had a c-section).
Plan a date night with your partner (even if it’s while baby’s sleeping).
Take baby’s 1-month old baby photo.