2 Month Old Baby
Your baby is two-months-old!
What happened to that sleepy baby? At two months old, baby's probably realizing the joys of interaction and started to cut back a bit on snoozing so much during the day, staying up to "socialize." Now you're probably trying to figure out how to keep baby entertained—and get stuff done around the house at the same time. This probably also means you're getting a little extra sleep at night. (Isn't sleep 
amazing
?!) Not there yet? Don't worry. You 
will
 sleep again—and it might be sooner than you think!
2-Month-Old Development
We’re not going to lie—having a two-month-old baby can be kind of tough. While baby might be sleeping more, he might be crying more too, especially in the evenings. The good news is, around six to eight weeks is when crying tends to peak in babies, and within the next month or two, you’ll probably notice much less fussy time. Hang in there, ask for help when you need it, and talk to baby’s pediatrician if the crying is worrying you.
2-Month-Old Baby Weight & Length
The average weight of a 2-month-old baby is 11.3 pounds for girls and 12.3 pound for boys. Length (aka height) averages are 22.5 inches for girls and 23 inches for boys, according to the World Health Organization.
It’s normal to wonder how much a 2-month-old should weigh and measure—but always remember that healthy babies vary in size, and don’t get too caught up with comparing your child’s weight to the “average.” Instead, it’s about growth—your two-month-old should follow a steady upswing on the growth chart at the pediatrician’s office. If he is, he’s right on track.
Your 2-month-old baby has probably gained around 1.5 to 2 pounds and grown about 1 to 1.5 inches in the past month. His head could be half an inch bigger, too.
Five Senses
Baby’s eyes are moving more and can focus better on objects. In fact, your two-month-old baby can probably track a moving object, following it with his gaze a full 180 degrees.
Baby likes to look at more complex patterns than those simple black-and-white ones he was into last month. Consider hanging a mobile above his crib or play mat for him to admire.
Baby’s really interested in what you have to say. When you talk, you might notice him actively listening. He might even try to respond with cooing, or move his arms and legs in delight at your “conversation.”
He’s comforted by your touch and recognizes your face.
2-Month-Old Milestones
What Should My 2-Month-Old Be Doing?
Baby’s getting stronger, perhaps lifting his shoulders during tummy time and his head while in a seated position. Give him plenty of time on his belly, so he can practice lifting his head, which will strengthen his neck muscles!
His legs are straightening out, and his kicks are stronger.
Baby’s movements might start to look less jerky and more fluid. He’s moving a lot, trying out new positions and strengthening and coordinating those muscles.
Baby’s becoming more aware and playful with his hands. He may have started soothing himself by sucking his fists.
He's gradually becoming a social butterfly, responding to you with gurgles, coos and ahhs and ohhs and even smiles.
Is My 2-Month-Old Healthy?
As your two-month-old baby continues to grow and develop—physically and in personality—it’s easy to find yourself wondering if every little change and symptom is normal. Here are some common health concerns parents of two-month-olds have:
Teething.
 Can a two-month-old teeth? Yes, actually! There’s a super-wide 
age range in which babies can start teething
, and it’s not impossible. However, it’s much more common to happen closer to four to six months. If your baby’s drooling, crying, having trouble sleeping and refuses to nurse, your two-month-old might be 
teething
. Check with a doctor to know for sure.
Poop.
 The bane of your existence! How often should a two-month-old poop? Well, it’s complicated! Formula-fed babies tend to poop once or twice a day; breastfed babies can poop that often—or they can go up to seven days without pooping and be perfectly healthy! Instead of frequency, look out for consistency (gross, we know).
If your 2-month-old is 
constipated
 , the poop will come out in hard balls and his belly might feel hard or rigid. Here’s 
how to help a constipated baby
.
If your 2-month-old has 
diarrhea
 , it will be more runny or watery than usual. Here’s 
how to help a baby with diarrhea
.
Coughing.
 In a 2-month-old baby, coughing could be caused by a number of things, including the common cold. Here’s lots of info on 
treating coughing in babies.
2-Month-Old Feeding
Whether you’re bottle-feeding or breastfeeding, getting baby fed is still probably taking up a large part of the day. Continue to follow baby’s signals that he’s hungry (smacking lips, sucking, that cry!) and when he’s full (turns away from the bottle, gets distracted, falls asleep) and you can assure yourself he’s well fed.
How much should a 2-month-old eat?
Bottle feeding:
 How much formula for a 2-month-old baby? Your bottle-fed baby probably feeds every three to four hours and is taking in about four to five ounces each time. Just like adults, he might have a meal where he’s extra hungry or doesn’t eat quite so much. That’s normal.
Breastfeeding:
 How often should a 2-month-old nurse? About every two to three hours. If your baby is sleeping longer stretches than he used to (lucky you!) there’s no need to wake him up to feed. He’ll tell you when he’s hungry!
2-Month-Old Feeding Schedule
Photo: Megan Rubey
What Can Baby Eat This Month?
Baby should still be sticking to just breast milk or formula for feedings.
One common question is: 
Can you give a 2-month-old water?
 And the answer is typically no. An exception is if your baby’s pediatrician has recommended it because of a medical reason.
Both solid foods and water can be introduced around four to six months. Talk to the pediatrician to decide when might be the right time for baby.
2-Month-Old Sleep
How Much Should a 2-Month-Old Sleep?
A typical 2-month-old baby sleeps about 15-and-a-half hours per day. It’s common for babies at this age to sleep about eight-and-a-half hours at night (yes, it’s probably still 
interrupted
 sleep—that’s okay) and to have about three naps that total about seven hours of daytime sleep.
How Long Should a 2-Month-Old Sleep?
Duration of sleep for a 2-month-old baby can vary widely from baby to baby, but some parents report that their babies are sleeping for five- to six-hour stretches at night. (Yay!)
Can I Sleep-Train a 2-Month-Old?
Some parents wonder if sleep-training a 2-month-old is possible, but many doctors will tell you to wait until baby’s at least four months old. That’s when many babies tend to naturally feed less at night and have more established sleep patterns. You can, of course, start getting baby ready for sleep-training now. That could mean starting to put baby down for naps and bedtime in his crib when he’s sleepy but still awake. It’s important for baby to learn to fall asleep by himself—that’s the skill he’ll need to sleep through the night without waking you.
Why Is my 2-Month-Old Fighting Sleep?
Now that baby’s becoming more social, you might find she wants to stay awake for longer stretches. This is totally fine and normal but unfortunately, some babies stay awake longer than they should and get overtired. An overtired baby is a cranky baby who’s 
harder
 to get to sleep!
Why Is my 2-Month-Old Sleeping a Lot?!
If your 2-month-old is sleeping all day, she could have her days and nights confused. Or perhaps she’s sick! There are several 
reasons for baby to be extra sleepy
 during the day. Talk to your baby’s pediatrician if you’re concerned.
2-Month-Old Sleep Schedule
Photo: Megan Rubey
2-Month-Old Schedule
At 2 months old, babies are still really following a pattern more than a schedule, but you should continue to enforce that pattern, so your baby gets into daily habits and starts to anticipate what’s coming next. This will set her up for being in a more distinct routine when she’s a bit older.
2-Month-Old Schedule Example
A 2-month-old’s daily schedule might look something like this.
Photo: Megan Rubey
2-Month-Old Baby Checklist / Tips
Take baby to her 
two-month-old checkup
.
Ask the doctor about supplementing with vitamin D drops if you’re breastfeeding.
Vaccinations
: The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends the pneumococcal (PCV13), DTaP, Hib, poliovirus and Rotavirus immunizations at the two-month visit. Baby may also need a second dose of the Hepatitis B vaccine, if she didn’t get it last month. Talk to your doctor if you’re concerned about 
2-month-old shot side effects
.
Schedule baby’s 
four-month-old checkup
.
Keep giving baby regular tummy time to work those neck and arm muscles.
Take baby’s 2-month-old baby photo.