7 Month Old Baby
Your baby is 7 months old!
As baby’s prepping herself for crawling, you’ve got to get your home ready. We know you probably baby-proofed when baby first came home, but having a crawler changes everything. Get down on your hands and knees to see what hazards are around that you'll need to guard against. That includes anything baby could tumble over, bump into, climb, cut or pinch herself on, or get tangled in. Also, make sure anything that could fall onto your child (a dresser, a bookshelf, the TV) is securely strapped into place, and be cautious to keep all choking hazards out of her reach—that includes looking for small things that easily drop on the floor unnoticed, like coins.
7-Month-Old Development
In the last three months, baby’s probably grown about 2 inches and her head circumference may have grown about an inch. She’s still developing her senses and skills that will lead to more independence.
7-Month-Old Baby Weight & Length
Many parents find themselves wondering 
How much does a 7-month-old weigh?
 Or 
How much should a 7-month-old weigh?
Average weight of a 7-month old is 16.8 pounds for girls and 18.3 pounds for boys. Average length is 26.5 inches for girls and 27.2 inches for boys, according to the World Health Organization.
But don’t get too caught up with the “normal” weight of a 7-month-old baby. Height and weight can vary widely between healthy babies, so as long as your baby is growing at a healthy rate—on a steady upward curve on the chart at the doctor’s office—and the pediatrician doesn’t see any signs of a problem, your baby’s growth is right on track.
Five Senses
Baby’s distance vision is improving. And she can see everything in full color now.
The parts of baby’s brain dealing with sound processing have developed, which means baby can fully process and understand a range of sounds. 
She’s been listening to your voice and may try to copy the pattern and tones of your voice when she babbles. So chatty!
7-Month-Old Milestones
What should a 7-month-old be doing? Remember, all babies develop at their own rate, but this is a peek at what might be happening with your baby this month.
Baby might be able to sit up by herself without any help! Though she might have to keep her hands on the floor to stay upright. Over the next couple months, she’ll keep developing this skill.
She’s starting to work on fine-tuning her grasp. Now, baby probably picks things up with her whole hand, but she’ll soon start working on the “pincer grasp,” where she’ll pick things up with her pointer finger and thumb.
She bears weight on her legs when you hold her upright. She babbles and imitates sounds. She knows what things to do to attract your attention (and isn’t it adorable?).
Is My 7-Month-Old Healthy?
Click through for answers to some of 7-month-olds’ parents’ biggest health questions.
My 
7-month-old is constipated
. What should I do?
My 
7-month-old has diarrhea
. What should I do?
My 
7-month-old is vomiting
. What should I do?
I have a 
7-month-old with a fever
. What should I do?
Could my 7-month-old’s 
fever be because of teething
? (Yes!)
My 
7-month-old has a cough
. What should I do?
7-Month-Old Baby Food
At seven months, baby is eating some solid foods but her main source of nutrition is still breast milk or formula.
How much should a 7-month-old eat? How often should a 7-month-old eat?
Bottle feeding:
 How much formula for a 7-month-old baby? A seven-month-old should be drinking about six to eight ounces of formula, four to six times per day.
Breastfeeding:
 Seven-month-olds still typically nurse about every three or four hours.
Pumping:
 If you’re pumping, baby needs a total of about 25 ounces of breast milk per day. So you’ll need to divide that by how many feedings your baby typically has. For example, if you feed baby about six times per day, he should get about 4.2 ounces of breast milk at each feeding.
Solid food:
 How much solid food for a 7-month-old? Baby should be starting to get three meals of solid food each day. Depending on the baby, a meal might be as little as a tablespoon or two or as much as four to six ounces (eight to 12 tablespoons) of baby food.
What Can Baby Eat This Month?
What to feed your 7-month-old baby is mostly up to you! There aren’t strict guidelines about when to feed baby certain foods, but you do want to stick to nutritious, unprocessed foods that are pureed or runny enough for your new eater to chew. You can’t go wrong with mashed or pureed fruits and veggies and whole grain baby cereal. 
Here are some nutritious options
.
Be aware that there are a few foods you should avoid giving baby just yet. This includes honey, cow’s milk and hard veggies, whole nuts and anything else that could be a choking hazard.
Can a 7-month-old eat eggs?
Eggs make some parents nervous because of the allergy risk. In the past, pediatricians used to tell parents to wait until 9 months to introduce egg yolk to baby, and to wait until 12 months to give baby the egg white.
But newer food allergy research suggests that most babies 
should not
 avoid allergenic foods entirely. And in fact, that it might benefit baby to introduce them earlier.
The short answer is: Yes, you can probably give baby eggs, but talk to baby’s doctor and decide together. (Baby’s allergy risk may come into play.) And as with introducing any new food, watch your baby for signs of an allergic reaction in the following days.
Can I give my 7-month-old finger foods?
Probably not. At 7 months, your baby might not yet have developed the pincer grasp needed to pick up finger foods. When baby 
is
 ready, make sure the foods are very soft and cut very small, so baby can more easily gnash them with her gums.
Here’s a sample 7-month-old feeding schedule with solids:
7-Month-Old Feeding Schedule
Photo: Megan Rubey
7-Month-Old Sleep
Sleep! Parents with babies 
always
 have questions about sleep. Here, we answer the biggest ones.
How much should a 7-month-old sleep?
Baby sleeps about 14 to 15 hours per day—six to 11 of those hours are at night. Some babies sleep through the night at this age but others may still be waking up in the wee hours. It’s typical for a 7-month-old baby to have about two naps totaling three or four hours of daytime sleep.
Here’s an example of a 7-month-old sleep and nap schedule.
7-Month Old Sleep Schedule
Photo: Megan Rubey
My 7-month-old won’t sleep! Why?
In a 7-month-old baby, sleep regression can happen for several reasons. Babies might start waking in the middle of the night because of illness or teething pain. During a growth spurt, they might be extra hungry and want to feed more. Now that they’re learning how to roll, creep and crawl, they might wake to practice their new skills in the middle of the night. They might just miss their parents and want some cuddle time!
How can I begin sleep-training a 7-month-old?
To sleep-train your baby, you’ll want to gradually remove yourself from baby’s efforts to soothe herself to sleep. Babies, just like adults, wake up throughout the night. But being able to go back to sleep on her own is what will give her the ability to “sleep through the night.” Baby needs to practice in order to develop that skill. Here’s the full scoop on 
how to sleep train a 7-month-old baby
.
Is a 7-month-old sleeping on her stomach okay?
Stomach sleeping is probably totally fine, so long as baby is skillfully rolling over by herself and able to hold up her head and shoulders. Still, put baby to sleep on her back. If she chooses to flip to her tummy, you shouldn’t worry about SIDS at this point.
7-Month-Old Schedule
Baby’s daily schedule seems to be constantly changing and evolving but this month’s routine probably looks pretty similar to the one she had last month—though we hope you’re getting more uninterrupted nighttime sleep!
7-Month-Old Schedule Example
A 7-month-old’s daily schedule might look something like this.
Photo: Megan Rubey
7-Month-Old Baby Checklist/Tips
Schedule baby’s 
nine-month checkup
, if you haven’t already.
Introduce a high chair—if you haven’t already—for baby to enjoy meals with the rest of the family and work on feeding herself from the tray.
Does baby 
need a new car seat
? A car seat for a 7-month-old baby should be rear-facing (until age 2 or 3). We recommend a 
convertible seat
 that can be used for at least another year or two.
Flip through baby’s favorite board books, or a colorful magazine, with her and describe what’s in the pictures.
Looking for games to play with a 7-month-old? Get 
baby activity ideas here
.
Take baby’s 7-month-old baby photo.