11 Month Old Baby
Your baby is 11 months old!
What a personality! Your 11-month-old baby’s character may have started to shine through, and now you’re probably seeing whether she tends to be more laid-back or whether she’s got some spunk. But don’t assume too much! She’s still developing and figuring out her likes and dislikes. Baby’s learning,observing (and testing!) and figuring out how to react to things she encounters. And really, baby’s probably displayed a variety of temperaments—such as shyness and independence—at different points in her development, not to mention on any given day! Give it some time, and baby’s personality will continue to evolve.
11-Month-Old Development
Your 11-month-old isn’t getting longer anymore—she’s getting taller! As she stands herself up more and more, she’s beginning to see the world from an upright position, which makes it way more interesting. And that will make baby even more excited about exploring it that way. Look out world!
11-Month-Old Baby Weight & Height
How much should an 11-month-old weigh and measure?
Average weight for an 11-month-old baby is 19.2 pounds for girls and 20.8 pounds for boys. Average height is 28.7 inches for girls and 29.3 inches for boys.
Baby is probably growing about a half inch taller each month and putting on three to five ounces per week, but as baby becomes more mobile and active, her rate of growth might begin to slow down a bit. So you might find your 11-month-old baby is not gaining weight as quickly as she used to.
If you’re concerned about baby’s rate of growth, have a chat with the pediatrician. Babies may experience growth spurts at different times compared to other babies, so everything might be just fine. But it’s always a good idea to get baby checked out just in case.
Five Senses
Baby can see pretty clearly, making out faces from about 20 feet away.
She can easily watch objects as they move.
Baby’s listening closely—and now it’s integrated with her sense of sight. In other words, baby’s looking and listening at the same time, learning much more about what’s going on around her.
Baby’s fingers seem to be drawn to trouble—she wants to poke, prod and rip things! Here’s where some baby-safe finger paints or old magazines can come in handy.
11-Month-Old Milestones
What Should My 11-Month-Old Be Doing?
Baby is likely standing, cruising, scooting and is exploring everything!
Crawling.
 Baby is probably getting better and better at crawling. That’ll be her main mode of transportation—until the light bulb moment (maybe a few months from now) when she realizes that walking is faster!
Cruising.
 Baby may begin to hold on to furniture as she walks herself around the room. Some especially daring babies may also let go. (Read: Standing!)
Standing.
 Baby may stand without support or while holding your hands. Next step: Walking. 
Pointing.
 She can recognize objects and point to them when you ask her where they are.
Is My 11-Month-Old Healthy?
Here are some frequent health questions parents of 11-month-olds have. Click through for answers and lots of helpful information.
My 
11-month-old has diarrhea
. What should I do?
My 
11-month-old is constipated
. What should I do?
My 
11-month-old is coughing
. What should I do?
My 
11-month-old is vomiting
. What should I do?
My 
11-month-old has a fever
. What should I do?
11-Month-Old Food
Baby gets breast milk or formula three to five times a day, and has three meals of solid foods, plus one to three snacks.
What Can Baby Eat This Month?
Baby is still on formula or breast milk during month 11 and is really a full-fledged solids eater.
How much formula for an 11-month-old is typical?
About six to eight ounces about three to five times per day should do the trick.
How often should my baby breastfeed?
Still, baby is nursing about three to five times per day at 11 months old. Some moms think they need to stop nursing around 1-year but know that benefits of breast milk extend into the toddler years. Many women continue breastfeeding their babies past the first birthday and are glad they did it. It’s a personal decision, so do what feels right for you and baby.
Can I give my 11-month-old whole milk?
Doctors recommend waiting it out another month. Once your baby is officially one, his digestive system should be mature enough to handle regular cow’s milk. Stick to whole milk from age one to age two, mixing it into baby’s regular formula or breast milk in slowly increasing amounts. This is what a feeding schedule for an 11-month-old baby might look like.
11-Month-Old Feeding Schedule
Photo: Megan Rubey
11-Month-Old Sleep
Your 11-month-old baby still likely sleeps about 13 to 14 hours total per day. About 10 to 11 of those hours are at night, and he’s probably taking two naps totaling about three hours of daytime sleep.
11-Month-Old Sleep Schedule
Photo: Megan Rubey
Why is my 11-month-old not sleeping like she used to?
For an 11-month-old, sleep regression is not out of the question. Baby is super active now! And she may want to suddenly be super active at night too. If baby isn’t sick, it probably is just a regression that could last a couple of weeks. Make every effort to get baby back on track by giving her a soothing bedtime routine and putting baby to bed at her usual bedtime. Earlier is almost always better!
How do I start sleep-training an 11-month-old?
If your baby is waking at night, and you’re ready to take some steps to get her sleeping longer stretches, sleep-training may be the answer. Here’s the scoop on 
how to sleep-train a baby
.
11-Month-Old Schedule
Your curious and playful 11-month-old baby now has a really active day!
If you’re looking for things to do with an 11-month-old baby, play peekaboo with different variations. For example, put a small blanket over baby’s head and then take it away; hide behind a door; put a blanket over your head, and let baby take it off.
Listen to music together and sing! This is a great way to help baby’s language development. Many babies’ schedules look pretty different, but a typical 11-month-old’s daily routine might go something like this:
Photo: Megan Rubey
11-Month-Old Baby Checklist/Tips
Schedule baby’s 
12-month checkup
, if you haven’t already.
Send out invitations to baby’s first birthday party, if you’re having one.
Keep playing and singing songs with baby.
Take baby’s 11-month-old baby photo.