Newborn Baby
Congratulations on your new baby!
Baby's here! Now it's time to figure out parenthood: the feeding, the bathing, the diaper changing and oh... the
sleeping! Relax, you'll get the hang of everything. Just don't freak out if adjusting to this new life doesn't "come
naturally"—it can take a little longer for some than others. These first few weeks with your newborn baby are about
resting, recovering and getting to know baby, as you and your partner figure out how to navigate life with this amazing
new addition to your family!
At Birth
Development
Your newborn’s arms and legs are still curled in the fetal position—that's temporary. His ways of communicating? Cries,
grunts, sneezes and hiccups.
Average weight for a baby at birth is 7.1 pounds for girls and 7.4 pounds for boys. Average length is 19.3 inches for
girls and 19.6 inches for boys, according to the World Health Organization.
1-Week-Old Baby
1-Week-Old Baby Development
It’s normal for a baby to lose up to 10 percent of his birth weight in the first week of life—it’s just because he’s
lost the extra fluids he had at birth—so don’t get nervous by the dip in the scales.
At birth, baby’s head may have looked misshapen from his trip down the birth canal, but it should have rounded out
within a few days. Baby’s skull has two soft spots, called fontanels. Baby’s umbilical cord is still attached, and
you’ll want to keep the area dry until it falls off.
1-Week-Old Baby Milestones
You and baby are getting settled in at home and developing a new routine. Baby should have his first outing—if you both
feel ready. A walk around the block in the fresh air is a much better idea than going somewhere crowded and germy.
1-Week-Old Baby Food
A one-week-old baby is feeding on formula or breast milk around the clock—at least every two to three hours—but
sometimes it can seem like more than that! Some breastfed babies cluster feed, which means they feed really often in
order to boost mom’s milk supply. That’s normal; go with it.
I’m feeding baby formula. How much should a 1-week-old baby eat?
Follow baby’s cues, but about two to three ounces of formula about once every three to four hours should be about right.
How long should a 1-week-old baby breastfeed for?
We know it’s hard, but don’t watch the clock while breastfeeding! First offer baby one breast, and make sure he’s
latched on well. If he still seems hungry after that breast is soft and he’s seemed to finish off that milk, offer the
other one. Baby will stop when he’s full. At the next feeding, start with the opposite breast. It’s common for the
feeding to take around 20 to 40 minutes but that’s not set in stone. Seems vague, we know, but that’s really how it
works!
Worried baby’s not drinking enough breast milk or formula?
Baby should be wetting at least five to eight diapers per day.
What should I give a 1-week-old baby for constipation?
Doctors advise seeking a doctor’s care if a baby under a month old is
constipated
—
not
to treat it yourself. So make the call to the pediatrician right away.
How much breast milk at 1 week should I give baby?
If you’re pumping breast milk, your baby will likely take about two or three ounces per feeding.
Newborn Feeding Schedule
Photo: Megan Rubey
1-Week-Old Baby Sleep
A 1-week-old baby sleeps most of the day, waking every two or three hours to chow down (then, he's likely back to
snoozing again.)
It’s hard to say how much sleep for a 4-day-old, or how much a 5-day-old or a 1-week-old baby should sleep, but it’s
pretty typical to be about 16 to 20 hours per day. And they usually don’t sleep more than two to four hours at a time.
Waking happens around the clock because your baby still hasn’t learned to differentiate between day and night. Try to
keep things bright and playful throughout the day, and dark and relaxed at night, so baby (hopefully) starts to see the
difference.
Always put your baby to sleep on his back, and make sure the crib is free of soft or fluffy bedding and other objects,
to reduce his risk of SIDS.
Newborn Sleep Schedule
Photo: Megan Rubey
2-Week-Old Baby
2-Week-Old Baby Development
By the end of the second week, baby should have about regained his birth weight. Notice a 2-week-old growth spurt?
Babies tend to have a growth spurt around the end of the first week or beginning of the second week. You’ll know when it
happens because you’re baby will want to feed what feels like all. the. time.
2-Week-Old Baby Milestones
Sometime within two to three weeks post-birth, baby’s umbilical cord will fall off, which means baby will be ready for
his first real bath.
How far can babies see at 2 weeks?
He can see your face when you’re holding him close—babies’ sight at 2 weeks old is best from between 8 and 12 inches
away.
Okay, so there’s a lot of sleeping going on. You might wonder:
Do babies dream at 2 weeks old?
While, we can’t be sure what they’re dreaming about, experts believe they probably do.
2-Week-Old Baby Food
How often should a 2-week-old eat?

How much should be 2-week-old be eating?
You’re on a constant loop, it seems, feeding baby when she cries. Luckily, babies tend to instinctively know when they
need to eat. A breastfed baby should be nursing about eight to 12 times during a 24-hour period.
How much formula should my 2-week-old eat?
Your baby should continue to eat about two to three ounces every three to four hours.
2-Week-Old Baby Sleep
How much do two-week-old babies sleep?
Two-week-old babies tend to sleep around 16 hours a day, which seems like a lot but since they’re still waking around
the clock, you’re still probably totally exhausted.
2-Week-Old Baby Schedule
Two-week-old baby activities can begin to include tummy time. Give baby just two or three short sessions per day of
tummy time on the floor, so she gets a taste of being on her stomach. Eventually, you can increase the time she spends
on her tummy—it will help her arms and neck get stronger. (Just keep putting her to sleep on her back.) And it could
help prevent flat head syndrome.
Can a 2-week-old baby go outside? Yes! It’s up to you when you feel comfortable taking baby out, but we recommend it, as
long as the weather’s not extremely hot or cold. Baby could use some fresh air, and you could probably use a short walk.
If you’re concerned about strangers getting too close, consider wearing baby in a newborn carrier.
3-Week-Old Baby
3-Week-Old Baby Development
It’s common to experience a 3-week-old baby growth spurt, so be ready for a couple days with a whole lot of feedings!
Baby might be awake more often and alert than he was the first couple weeks. This sound like fun but it’s also a
shock—that your former little sleepyhead suddenly cries so much! Here’s your chance to get to know baby better. Do the
usual checks to figure out how to calm her: hunger, dirty or wet diaper, discomfort, gas… The more baby sees you coming
to her aid when she’s crying, the more you two will bond. (There’s no such thing as “spoiling” a newborn!)
Unfortunately, colic symptoms may appear around this time. Colic is when baby cries often, seemingly for no reason at
all.
Get the scoop on how colic is diagnosed
and what to do if you have a colicky baby.
3-Week-Old Baby Milestones
Baby’s sight at 3 weeks is still a little blurry. As baby tries to focus, you may notice his eyes looking crossed.
That’s totally normal for this age—as long as both eyes are moving (one doesn’t seem stuck still) and there aren’t any
windshield-wiper-like eye motions. Baby’s eyes should look much straighter by the time she’s 6 months old. (If not, talk
to the doctor.)
Cool fact:
Baby now recognizes your voice, your smell and how you look.
3-Week-Old Baby Food
The answer to the question: How much should a 3-week-old eat? Well, it’s not always so simple. Every baby is different,
of course. Plus, don’t you have some meals when you’re starving and some when you want to eat light?
Pay attention to baby—she’ll communicate with you when she’s hungry (crying, lip smacking, “rooting” or turning her head
in search for a nipple), and she’ll stop eating when she’s not.
How much formula at 3 weeks should baby have?
You might start bumping up baby’s formula servings to three to four ounces every three to four hours. Until the end of
the first month, don’t let baby go more than five hours without a feeding. Yep, wake her up if you have to.
How often should a 3-week-old baby breastfeed?
Still about 8 to 12 times per 24-hour period. Right now, baby may still be waking every three to four hours at night,
but if she starts sleeping longer (yay!), it’s okay to let her, so long as there are no issues with her weight gain. But
be sure you’re still always fitting in 8 to 12 daily feedings.
A 3-week-old nursing schedule can’t be set to a clock—though if you love routine, you wish you could. Feed on demand.
That means responding to baby’s signals when she’s ready to cuddle up and nurse.
3-Week-Old Baby Sleep
Your 3-week-old still sleeps in spurts but you may notice the spurts getting a little bit shorter. As your baby begins
to be awake for more hours in a day, continue to make daytime interactions more exciting and interesting than nighttime
ones. By showing baby that being awake at night is kind of boring, you may set her up for future sleeping through the
night.
How much should a 3-week-old sleep?
A typical 3-week-old baby may sleep about 16 hours per day, but remember some babies are sleepier than others.
3-Week-Old Baby Schedule
For your 3-week-old “schedule” regularity isn’t really realistic. You’re still getting to know each other! Plus the fact
that he’s a little more alert now might be tripping up your routine a bit. Follow baby’s cues for when he’s hungry and
tired, and you’ll be fine. It’s amazing how much your instincts will kick in and how much you’ll know what baby needs
and wants when. When you don’t know, use trial and error. Every new parent does!
In other words, a typical 3-week-old baby schedule is no schedule at all!
4-Week-Old Baby
4-Week-Old Baby Development
If you think there’s a 4-week growth spurt happening, you’re probably not imagining things. Doctors say somewhere around
3 to 6 weeks old, many babies start feeding more often in an effort to pack on some extra ounces. That means you’ll be
at baby’s beck and call for a few days (aren’t you already anyhow?). Try to go with the flow (literally).
How much should baby weigh at 4 weeks?
Well, those spurts are paying off! The average weight of a 4-week-old baby (aka one-month old) is 9.2 pounds for girls
and 9.9 pounds for boys, according to the World Health Organization. The average length is 21.1 inches for girls and
21.5 inches for boys.
What can babies see at four weeks?
Your face! Baby’s vision at 4 weeks old is still developing, so she can still just focus on things within a foot of her.
Luckily, that means she gets to gaze at you while you’re holding her. And she’s paying attention too. Feel free to make
some silly faces to entertain her.
Baby sight at 4 weeks favors high-contrast patterns, so now’s a good time to introduce a mobile or hanging toy with
different black-and-white shapes.
For a 4-week-old, tummy time is important. Some babies
hate tummy time
and basically cry throughout. Don’t let that discourage you though. Baby needs to get used to it. Keep tummy time short
(just a couple minutes or even seconds is okay for now)—and try to make it fun by getting down on the floor with baby
and chatting her up.
4-Week-Old Baby Milestones
Wondering what to expect from 4-week-old baby? Your baby has been working on turning his head from side to side and may
even start to lift his head for a second during tummy time.
He keeps his hands in fists and brings them toward his face. Baby may even start to turn his head toward voices and
noises he recognizes.
4-Week-Old Baby Food
When you have a 4-week-old, feeding still takes up a huge chunk of baby’s day. These are some common feeding questions
parents have during week four.
I’m formula feeding. How much should my 4-week-old eat?
If you’re feeding formula, baby may have upped his intake to about four ounces every four hours.
I’m nursing. How often should a 4-week-old baby breastfeed?
You should continue to feed baby every two to three hours, until he’s content.
I’m pumping breast milk. How much milk should a 4-week-old drink?
The amount of breast milk baby takes at each feeding has probably slowly increased over the past few weeks. If baby’s
only drinking breast milk (no formula), she probably is taking about 25 ounces per day. Divide that by the number of
time she feeds and that’s approximately how much breast milk she should get at each feeding. For example, if she eats 10
times per day, she gets about 2.5 ounces per feeding.
4-Week-Old Baby Sleep
For a 4-week-old baby, sleep and waking still happens around the clock, though you may notice a larger chunk of it comes
at night.
How long does a 4-week-old baby sleep?
Four-week-old babies typically sleep about 15 to 16 hours per day. How it’s split up throughout the day depends on the
baby; around three daytime naps is pretty typical, with eight-and-a-half hours of sleep probably come at night (with
interruptions, of course!)
4-Week-Old Baby Schedule
Interested in a 4-week-old baby schedule? Don’t get too concerned with becoming a drill sergeant (or preschool
teacher!). Baby still can’t really follow a clock and will keep tripping up your efforts to create structure.
Instead, try to create patterns throughout baby’s day that could one day evolve into a more set schedule. A common
routine for a 4-week-old baby is feed, play, sleep, repeat. If baby’s day looks something like that, you’re already on
your way to getting into a good daily routine. Here’s an example of a schedule you might try to strive toward throughout
the day.
4-Month-Old Baby Sample Schedule
Photo: Megan Rubey
Newborn Baby Checklist/Tips
Take baby to his
first checkup
at the pediatrician’s office, about three to five days after birth.
Make an appointment for baby’s
one-month-old checkup
.
Sleep when baby sleeps (as much as you can).
Ask for help whenever you need it!
Give baby
tummy time
—just a little bit for now. Three to five minute sessions, two times a day, is a good start.
Take baby’s newborn baby photo.1 Month Old Baby
Your baby is one month old!
What an amazing first month—for you and baby! It's hard to believe how much your day-to-day has changed now that this
beautiful (and confusing!) person has entered the world and turned your life upside down. Your one-month-old baby is
completely dependent on you, and you're completely in love with her. You're probably feeling more confident in your
mommy abilities than you were a month ago. And with good reason—you're trusting your instincts, putting baby first and
reading up on 1-month-old baby development and parenting advice, which is proof enough that you're doing a great job!
1-Month-Old Development
Pretty much all baby did in the first month was sleep, cry, eat and poop, but soon a little (or… make that, big)
personality will emerge. Case in point: You will probably notice your 1-month-old baby cooing and ahh-ing in the coming
weeks. How ridiculously cute is that!?
One-Month-Old Baby Weight & Length
We know you’re wondering: How much should a 1-month-old weigh? What should her length (aka height) be? The average
one-month-old baby weight is 9.2 pounds for girls and 9.9 pounds for boys, according to the World Health Organization.
Of course, just because your baby weighs or measures much more or much less than the average that doesn’t mean there’s a
problem. Babies—just like adults—come in different shapes and sizes. What’s important is that baby’s growing and putting
on weight at a healthy rate—the pediatrician will check on that at her one-month checkup.
Your baby has likely gained 1.5 to 2 pounds and grown about 1.5 to 2 inches since birth, and baby’s head probably
measures about an inch larger.
Coming up: In a 6-week-old baby, a growth spurt is pretty common, so be mentally prepared! Sometimes babies feed more
frequently when they’re in a spurt, so know you might have to keep up with an extra demanding baby.
Five Senses
Since hearing is developed in utero around 35 weeks, your one-month-old baby’s hearing is fully developed, and she may
turn toward familiar sounds and voices. Initially, fluids in the ears affect the clarity of sound, and the parts of the
brain that deal with sound processing have to develop, which usually doesn't happen until 7 months.
Baby’s eyes still wander and may sometimes cross, which could make you wonder
How far can a one-month-old see?
She can now see and focus on objects that are about 8 to 12 inches away. She likes black and white patterns and those in
other contrasting colors. But she'd rather look at faces than anything else, so no need for fancy toys. Just hold her
facing you, and chat away!
Baby’s sense of smell is developing too. She likes sweet smells (bitter or acidic thing are basically
yuck
to her), and if you’re breastfeeding, she’d probably be able to pick your breast milk out of a lineup, since she knows
the smell and taste so well!
She loves to touch things that are soft (a cozy blanket) and doesn’t like to be held or moved in a rough or abrupt way.
So keep things gentle—you probably already are!
One-Month-Old Milestones
What Should My 1-Month-Old Be Doing? That’s the question every new parent asks. While every baby’s different, it’s
typical for a 1-month-old baby to still be keeping her hands tight in fists. Baby probably jerks and quivers her arms
and has keen reflexes. If she hasn't started smiling already, she probably will this month—so exciting!
While you should be patient with baby’s progress hitting milestones here are a few developmental red flags you should be
looking for. Call the doctor if your one-month-old baby:
Is feeding slowly or has trouble sucking.
Doesn’t blink in bright light.
Doesn’t respond to loud sounds.
Doesn’t focus her eyes on an object or follow it with her eyes when it moves.
Has a trembling jaw, when she isn’t crying or pumped up.
Doesn’t seem to move her arms and legs much.
Seems overly loose or overly stiff in her limbs.
Is My 1-Month-Old Healthy?
With babies, in general, no news is good news. As long as you’re not seeing signs of a problem, your one-month-old’s
health is probably totally great. A few common health concerns of parents of one-month-olds include:
Constipation.
Parents wonder: How often should a 1-month-old poop? The answer is around two times per day, if they’re being fed
formula. But seeing how breastfed babies can go days without pooping (and be totally healthy), this one can be tough to
decipher. The general rule of thumb is that if your baby’s poop comes out in hard, small balls, you’ve got a 1-month-old
baby who’s constipated.
Check out more on how to handle constipation.
Congestion.
Babies get runny and stuffy noses often—in fact, they tend to get around 10 to 12 colds per year. Plus, there’s always
the possibility of allergies and infections. If your 1-month-old is congested,
head over here to get more info
on how to help her breathe and feel better.
Coughing.
In a 1-month-old, coughing is just as common as congestion. But cough medicine isn’t safe for babies this age.
Read more on how to treat baby’s cough
and how to know if she needs to see the pediatrician.
1-Month-Old Feeding
Your 1-month-old is still probably feeding once every two to three hours if you’re breastfeeding; once every three to
four hours if you’re formula feeding. By now, you’ve probably learned to follow baby’s cues to tell when she’s
hungry—you may even be able to identify her own distinct “hungry cry.”
How Much Should a One-Month Old Eat?
If you’re breastfeeding, don’t worry too much about quantity of breast milk. You can’t measure it when it comes straight
from the tap anyhow! Your baby will know when she’s full by stopping, moving away from your breast or falling asleep.
Soon, baby will become a more efficient feeder and will be able to get more milk in a shorter amount of time—so you may
notice you spend a teeny bit less time feeding in the coming months. If you’re formula feeding, baby is probably
consuming a four-ounce bottle about once every four hours.
What Can Baby Eat This Month?
Baby should still stick to just formula or breast milk—or a combo of both. If you’re wondering,
Can a 1-month-old drink water?
know that most doctors recommend waiting until baby’s at least 6 months old before you give her water. She gets plenty
of fluids from your breast milk or formula! There may be some exceptions, so always check with the pediatrician first.
1-Month-Old Feeding Schedule
Photo: Megan Rubey
1-Month-Old Sleep
How Much Sleep Does a 1-Month-Old Get?
One-month-old babies typically sleep about 15 to 16 hours per day. How it’s split up throughout the day depends on the
baby, but around three daytime naps is pretty typical, with eight-and-a-half hours of sleep probably come at night (with
interruptions, of course!)
Doesn’t sound exactly like your kid? It’s okay—different babies have different personalities, just like adults do! Any
sleep concerns should be discussed with the pediatrician, who can give you personalized advice, but here are some common
1-month-old sleep concerns:
1-Month-Old Won’t Sleep.
There are so many reasons it might be tough to get baby to sleep. She could be overstimulated, uncomfortable or just
want to cuddle with you. Try some of these tricks to help baby sleep, and if they don’t seem to work, then talk your
pediatrician
1-Month-Old Sleeping All Day.
Some babies get what’s called “
day/night confusion
,” where they mix up day and nights. Some might have an illness that’s making them sleep more than usual. Others might
just be extra sleepy
! Try to pinpoint the cause of baby’s sleepiness and then decide whether or not it could be an issue—if baby’s otherwise
healthy, eating and peeing enough, then it’s probably not something to worry over.
1-Month-Old Sleep Schedule
Photo: Megan Rubey
1-Month-Old Schedule
It’s probably not possible to get a 1-month-old on a schedule, but you can start to incorporate patterns throughout
baby’s day. For example, a “sleep, eat, play” routine works for a lot of babies. Over time, You’ll find that sticking to
a pattern like that may develop into a more predictable daily routine. Just remember to be flexible—things can change,
and it’s important you roll with the punches. Keep following baby’s cues for hunger and sleep.
One-Month-Old Schedule Example
A 1-month-old’s daily schedule might look something like this.
Photo: Megan Rubey
If you’re worried about your 1-month-old baby’s schedule or routine, talk to baby’s pediatrician about your specific
concerns.
1-Month-Old Checklist / Tips
Take baby to her
one-month-old checkup
.
Ask the doctor about supplementing with vitamin D drops if you’re breastfeeding.
Vaccination: The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends a second dose of the Hepatitis B vaccine between 1 and 2
months old.
Schedule baby’s
two-month-old checkup
.
Go to your
postpartum checkup
at about six weeks post-birth (sooner if you had a c-section).
Plan a date night with your partner (even if it’s while baby’s sleeping).
Take baby’s 1-month old baby photo.2 Month Old Baby
Your baby is two-months-old!
What happened to that sleepy baby? At two months old, baby's probably realizing the joys of interaction and started to
cut back a bit on snoozing so much during the day, staying up to "socialize." Now you're probably trying to figure out
how to keep baby entertained—and get stuff done around the house at the same time. This probably also means you're
getting a little extra sleep at night. (Isn't sleep
amazing
?!) Not there yet? Don't worry. You
will
sleep again—and it might be sooner than you think!
2-Month-Old Development
We’re not going to lie—having a two-month-old baby can be kind of tough. While baby might be sleeping more, he might be
crying more too, especially in the evenings. The good news is, around six to eight weeks is when crying tends to peak in
babies, and within the next month or two, you’ll probably notice much less fussy time. Hang in there, ask for help when
you need it, and talk to baby’s pediatrician if the crying is worrying you.
2-Month-Old Baby Weight & Length
The average weight of a 2-month-old baby is 11.3 pounds for girls and 12.3 pound for boys. Length (aka height) averages
are 22.5 inches for girls and 23 inches for boys, according to the World Health Organization.
It’s normal to wonder how much a 2-month-old should weigh and measure—but always remember that healthy babies vary in
size, and don’t get too caught up with comparing your child’s weight to the “average.” Instead, it’s about growth—your
two-month-old should follow a steady upswing on the growth chart at the pediatrician’s office. If he is, he’s right on
track.
Your 2-month-old baby has probably gained around 1.5 to 2 pounds and grown about 1 to 1.5 inches in the past month. His
head could be half an inch bigger, too.
Five Senses
Baby’s eyes are moving more and can focus better on objects. In fact, your two-month-old baby can probably track a
moving object, following it with his gaze a full 180 degrees.
Baby likes to look at more complex patterns than those simple black-and-white ones he was into last month. Consider
hanging a mobile above his crib or play mat for him to admire.
Baby’s really interested in what you have to say. When you talk, you might notice him actively listening. He might even
try to respond with cooing, or move his arms and legs in delight at your “conversation.”
He’s comforted by your touch and recognizes your face.
2-Month-Old Milestones
What Should My 2-Month-Old Be Doing?
Baby’s getting stronger, perhaps lifting his shoulders during tummy time and his head while in a seated position. Give
him plenty of time on his belly, so he can practice lifting his head, which will strengthen his neck muscles!
His legs are straightening out, and his kicks are stronger.
Baby’s movements might start to look less jerky and more fluid. He’s moving a lot, trying out new positions and
strengthening and coordinating those muscles.
Baby’s becoming more aware and playful with his hands. He may have started soothing himself by sucking his fists.
He's gradually becoming a social butterfly, responding to you with gurgles, coos and ahhs and ohhs and even smiles.
Is My 2-Month-Old Healthy?
As your two-month-old baby continues to grow and develop—physically and in personality—it’s easy to find yourself
wondering if every little change and symptom is normal. Here are some common health concerns parents of two-month-olds
have:
Teething.
Can a two-month-old teeth? Yes, actually! There’s a super-wide
age range in which babies can start teething
, and it’s not impossible. However, it’s much more common to happen closer to four to six months. If your baby’s
drooling, crying, having trouble sleeping and refuses to nurse, your two-month-old might be
teething
. Check with a doctor to know for sure.
Poop.
The bane of your existence! How often should a two-month-old poop? Well, it’s complicated! Formula-fed babies tend to
poop once or twice a day; breastfed babies can poop that often—or they can go up to seven days without pooping and be
perfectly healthy! Instead of frequency, look out for consistency (gross, we know).
If your 2-month-old is
constipated
, the poop will come out in hard balls and his belly might feel hard or rigid. Here’s
how to help a constipated baby
.
If your 2-month-old has
diarrhea
, it will be more runny or watery than usual. Here’s
how to help a baby with diarrhea
.
Coughing.
In a 2-month-old baby, coughing could be caused by a number of things, including the common cold. Here’s lots of info on
treating coughing in babies.
2-Month-Old Feeding
Whether you’re bottle-feeding or breastfeeding, getting baby fed is still probably taking up a large part of the day.
Continue to follow baby’s signals that he’s hungry (smacking lips, sucking, that cry!) and when he’s full (turns away
from the bottle, gets distracted, falls asleep) and you can assure yourself he’s well fed.
How much should a 2-month-old eat?
Bottle feeding:
How much formula for a 2-month-old baby? Your bottle-fed baby probably feeds every three to four hours and is taking in
about four to five ounces each time. Just like adults, he might have a meal where he’s extra hungry or doesn’t eat quite
so much. That’s normal.
Breastfeeding:
How often should a 2-month-old nurse? About every two to three hours. If your baby is sleeping longer stretches than he
used to (lucky you!) there’s no need to wake him up to feed. He’ll tell you when he’s hungry!
2-Month-Old Feeding Schedule
Photo: Megan Rubey
What Can Baby Eat This Month?
Baby should still be sticking to just breast milk or formula for feedings.
One common question is:
Can you give a 2-month-old water?
And the answer is typically no. An exception is if your baby’s pediatrician has recommended it because of a medical
reason.
Both solid foods and water can be introduced around four to six months. Talk to the pediatrician to decide when might be
the right time for baby.
2-Month-Old Sleep
How Much Should a 2-Month-Old Sleep?
A typical 2-month-old baby sleeps about 15-and-a-half hours per day. It’s common for babies at this age to sleep about
eight-and-a-half hours at night (yes, it’s probably still
interrupted
sleep—that’s okay) and to have about three naps that total about seven hours of daytime sleep.
How Long Should a 2-Month-Old Sleep?
Duration of sleep for a 2-month-old baby can vary widely from baby to baby, but some parents report that their babies
are sleeping for five- to six-hour stretches at night. (Yay!)
Can I Sleep-Train a 2-Month-Old?
Some parents wonder if sleep-training a 2-month-old is possible, but many doctors will tell you to wait until baby’s at
least four months old. That’s when many babies tend to naturally feed less at night and have more established sleep
patterns. You can, of course, start getting baby ready for sleep-training now. That could mean starting to put baby down
for naps and bedtime in his crib when he’s sleepy but still awake. It’s important for baby to learn to fall asleep by
himself—that’s the skill he’ll need to sleep through the night without waking you.
Why Is my 2-Month-Old Fighting Sleep?
Now that baby’s becoming more social, you might find she wants to stay awake for longer stretches. This is totally fine
and normal but unfortunately, some babies stay awake longer than they should and get overtired. An overtired baby is a
cranky baby who’s
harder
to get to sleep!
Why Is my 2-Month-Old Sleeping a Lot?!
If your 2-month-old is sleeping all day, she could have her days and nights confused. Or perhaps she’s sick! There are
several
reasons for baby to be extra sleepy
during the day. Talk to your baby’s pediatrician if you’re concerned.
2-Month-Old Sleep Schedule
Photo: Megan Rubey
2-Month-Old Schedule
At 2 months old, babies are still really following a pattern more than a schedule, but you should continue to enforce
that pattern, so your baby gets into daily habits and starts to anticipate what’s coming next. This will set her up for
being in a more distinct routine when she’s a bit older.
2-Month-Old Schedule Example
A 2-month-old’s daily schedule might look something like this.
Photo: Megan Rubey
2-Month-Old Baby Checklist / Tips
Take baby to her
two-month-old checkup
.
Ask the doctor about supplementing with vitamin D drops if you’re breastfeeding.
Vaccinations
: The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends the pneumococcal (PCV13), DTaP, Hib, poliovirus and Rotavirus
immunizations at the two-month visit. Baby may also need a second dose of the Hepatitis B vaccine, if she didn’t get it
last month. Talk to your doctor if you’re concerned about
2-month-old shot side effects
.
Schedule baby’s
four-month-old checkup
.
Keep giving baby regular tummy time to work those neck and arm muscles.
Take baby’s 2-month-old baby photo.3 Month Old Baby
Your baby is 3 months old!
What a charmer! By 3 months, baby is probably smiling plenty, and she's likely started to imitate what she hears and
sees (so watch what you do, mama!). You should chat with her throughout the day, describing what you're doing, how
you're doing it and where you're going—this is how she'll eventually learn to talk! Just don't go too crazy tough. Baby
is a quick learner, but she needs you to keep things clear and simple, and to recognize when she needs a break.
3-Month-Old Development
Baby is becoming even more active and social at three months, isn’t she? She’s more in control of her body and more
aware of people and interacting with them, which makes for lots of fun at playtime.
3-Month-Old Baby Weight & Length
Parents want to know: How much should a 3-month-old weigh and measure? The average weight of a 3-month-old baby is 12.9
pounds for girls and 14.1 pounds for boys; average length is 23.5 inches for girls and 24.2 inches for boys.
Whether baby’s close to the average or not, the important thing is that she’s growing at a healthy rate. She's likely
gained another 1.5 to 2 pounds and grown 1 to 1.5 inches this month. The size of her head may have gone up by a half
inch, too.
It’s common for a baby to experience a 3-month-old
growth spurt
. Signs of a growth spurt are having an especially hungry or cranky baby. Baby might wake more at night too. Don’t
worry—growth spurts are temporary! Let baby eat, sleep or cuddle more if that’s what she seems to want, and try not to
get too frustrated by the sudden change.
Five Senses
At 3 months old, baby’s senses have developed rapidly.
She's working at becoming a great communicator, making eye contact with you, and she can now recognize your face.
She follows moving objects with her eyes.
She smiles when she hears your voice.
3-Month-Old Milestones
What Should a 3-Month-Old Be Doing?
She's mimicking some sounds, movements and expressions and starting to babble.
Let baby play on the floor or under a baby gym, since she loves to kick up a storm and swing at things.
A 3-month-old at tummy time probably raises her head and her chest, holding up her upper body with her arms.
She opens and closes her hands.
When you hold her upright, she’ll push down with her feet onto the floor or your lap.
She bats at hanging toys above her.
She can grasp and shake a toy.
Look out for these signs of a developmental or medical problem at three months; they’re worth a call to the doctor:
Baby doesn’t respond to loud sounds or smile at the sound of your voice.
Baby doesn’t follow moving objects with her eyes.
Baby doesn’t smile socially.
Baby can’t grasp or hold objects.
Baby doesn’t bring her hands or objects to her mouth.
Baby’s eyes still seem crossed most of the time.
Baby doesn’t babble.
Baby doesn’t pay attention to new faces.
Baby doesn’t push down with her feet when she’s held upright and they’re placed on a flat surface.
Is My 3-Month-Old Healthy?
There are lots of health questions parents of three month olds have. Below are some of the most common, with links to
detailed articles to help you answer them.
My 3-month-old is drooling. Can a
3-month-old be teething
?
How
often should a 3-month-old poop
?
My
3-month-old is constipated
. What should I do?
My
3-month-old has diarrhea
. What should I do?
My
3-month-old is spitting up a lot
. What should I do?
My
3-month-old is losing hair
. Is that normal?
My
3-month-old is congested
. What should I do?
My
3-month-old is coughing
. What should I do?
3-Month-Old Feeding
In the last couple months, baby’s appetite has certainly increased! And she knows how to tell you when she’s hungry. Of
course, you’ve probably gotten in such a routine with feeding that you know when she’s about to do that hungry cry.
How much should a 3-month-old eat?
Bottle feeding:
How much formula for a 3-month-old baby? Typically five ounces about six to eight times a day.
Breastfeeding:
How often should a 3-month-old nurse? Feedings are typically about every three or four hours at this age but each
breastfed baby may be slightly different. What’s important is that baby seems content, your boobs seem to have been
emptied (they’re soft) and baby’s gaining weight healthily.
To double-check that baby’s getting enough breast milk, you can check her diapers. How many wet diapers for a
3-month-old baby? About four or five very wet ones per day.
You may notice your 3-month-old eating less than she did previously. Breastfed babies do get more efficient, so it’s
normal for your baby to feed in about half the time it took her to feed as a newborn. If you see all the signs that
baby’s getting enough to eat, it’s perfectly normal. If not, it could be a sign of a problem, so talk to the
pediatrician.
What Can Baby Eat This Month?
Baby is still only able to eat breast milk and/or formula. Many parents ask
Can I give my 3-month-old water?
Nope! Most doctors recommend parents wait until baby’s ready for solid foods—around 4 to 6 months of age—before they get
water. Baby’s getting plenty of hydration from breast milk or formula and needs the nourishment it provides.
3-Month-Old Feeding Schedule
Photo: Megan Rubey
3-Month-Old Sleep
How long do 3-month-olds sleep and nap?
Three-month-olds typically sleep about 15 hours a day, and more of those hours are falling at night. In fact, it’s
common for 3-month-olds to sleep about 10 hours at night, maybe with at least one five- or six-hour stretch. Baby is
probably taking three naps totaling five hours of daytime sleep.
How can I get my 3-month-old to sleep?
It’s harder than you might think to get a tired baby to actually go to sleep! You’ve probably heard the usual advice:
Keep the room dark and cool, rock and sing to your baby, and put baby to sleep while he’s sleepy but not yet asleep.
Still there are some nights when none of that seems to work. Try some other
moms’ tried and true tricks for calming a fussy baby
; they just might help you get your little one to snooze—finally.
What should my 3-month-old’s bedtime be?
The ideal bedtime for a 3-month-old baby depends on your family’s schedule, but many experts believe around 7 to 9 p.m.
is ideal at this age. As baby begins to sleep for longer stretches at night, you’ll want to gradually make bedtime
earlier, which (surprisingly!) encourages baby to sleep even longer.
Does my 3-month-old have sleep regression?
You may notice a bit of 3-month-old sleep regression. Baby might be waking more often at night because of a growth
spurt, or it might be a developmental thing. Around 3 or 4 months, babies’ brains are becoming more alert and because of
that, they want to be using that brainpower more often. Growth spurts can last a few days but true
sleep regression
(which typically happens closer to 4 months) can last two to six weeks.
3-Month-Old Sleep Schedule
Photo: Megan Rubey
3-Month-Old Schedule
A 3-month-old baby is a creature of habit—bedtime, nap and feeding routines keep her happy.
3-Month-Old Schedule Example
A 3-month-old’s daily schedule might look something like this.
Photo: Megan Rubey
3-Month-Old Baby Checklist / Tips
Make sure you have your
four-month baby checkup
scheduled. There’s no well-baby visit this month.
Look for signs of readiness for eating solid foods. The pediatrician may recommend you start as early as four months.
If you’re going back to work after maternity leave, best wishes, mama. You got this!
How often should I bathe my 3-month-old baby? Don’t worry about giving baby a bath more than once every few days.
Find some new
things to do with your 3-month-old baby
.
Take baby’s 3-month-old baby photo.4 Month Old Baby
Your baby is 4 months old!
Life for a 4-month-old baby is all about playtime! Baby’s laughing and reaching—and doing tons of gnawing. While you two
play on the floor, baby is probably showing off some newfound athletic abilities, such as rolling and pushing up. Not
getting yourself to the gym, mama? Baby is showing you how it's done (and he has the growth to show for it)! Use him as
your own little motivator and personal-trainer-in-the-making. Why not get down on the floor and do some exercises of
your own?
4-Month-Old Development
Your four-month-old continues to grow and learn new skills.
4-Month-Old Baby Weight & Length
How much should a 4-month-old weigh and measure? The average weight for a 4-month-old baby is 14.2 pounds for girls and
15.4 pounds for boys; the average length (aka height) is 24.4 inches for girls and 25.2 inches for boys.
Of course that doesn’t mean
your
4-month-old should weigh and measure exactly that. Remember: Healthy babies tend to follow a natural growth curve,
staying within the same percentile as they grow older, and it’s the growth that is an indicator of healthy growth—not
the percentile.
Baby probably has gained an extra 1 to 1.25 pounds in the past month, and he’s likely to go through a growth spurt this
month.
Five Senses
Your 4-month-old baby is learning about the world through all his senses.
Baby’s bringing his hand to his mouth and feeling objects with his mouth too.
He’s listening to you talk and imitating you; you’re probably having little “chats.” Play peekaboo and make funny faces
to get baby giggling.
Baby looks at things in the distance now, not just those close to him.
4-Month-Old Milestones
What should my 4-month-old be doing?
Baby may be able to roll from his stomach to his back and push up to his elbows.
He loves to reach for toys! Plastic keys, teething rings and soft books are good choices at this age.
For a 4-month-old, teething may have begun, which means you’re probably finding drool on everything he touches!
Is My 4-Month-Old Healthy?
Having a baby seems like a never-ending search for answers to health questions. Here are some common things parents ask:
Can a
4-month-old be teething
? (Yes!)
How
often should a 4-month-old poop
?
My
4-month-old is constipated
. What should I do when my 4-month-old is not pooping?
My
4-month-old has diarrhea
. What should I do?
My
4-month-old is spitting up a lot
. What should I do?
My
4-month-old has a cough
. What should I do?
My
4-month-old is vomiting
. What should I do?
My
4-month-old has a fever
. What should I do? (For a 4-month-old, a low fever after shots is normal. Ask the doctor about giving baby OTC fever
meds.)
What should my 4-month-old’s heart rate be? (90 to 160 beats per minute is the normal range for infants.)
4-Month-Old Baby Food
Just when it feels like you’ve gotten into a rhythm with feeding your four-month-old, things might switch up a bit.
What can a 4-month-old eat?
You should continue to feed your baby breast milk or formula (or both, as some supplementing moms do). But what you
might really want to know is: Can I give my 4-month-old baby food? The answer is… maybe.
Different babies are ready for solid foods at different ages. If you’re wondering,
Can I give my 4-month-old baby food?
talk it over with baby’s doctor. Before you chat, look out for these signs of readiness:
Baby holds her head up high and for long periods of time.
Baby can sit upright (while propped) in a high chair.
Baby has reached about double her birth weight and is at least 13 pounds.
Baby’s interested food and opens her mouth to try to taste it.
Once you decide to start, you’ll have to choose a
first food for baby
.
Avocado
, bananas, sweet potatoes and single-grain baby cereal are all popular choices.
Wondering how much cereal (or fruit or veggie) for a 4-month-old is appropriate? You’ll have to start slow. Just one or
two ounces at a meal is plenty; if baby doesn’t seem interested in finishing, don’t force it. Introduce a new food once
every few days, looking out for signs of a food allergy.
How much does a 4-month-old eat? How often should a 4-month-old eat?
Bottle feeding:
How much formula for a 4-month-old? Typically four ounces about four to six times a day.
Breastfeeding:
How often should a 4-month-old nurse? Feedings are still typically about every three or four hours, but each breastfed
baby may be slightly different. What’s important is that baby seems content, your boobs seem to have been emptied
(they’re soft) and baby’s gaining weight healthily.
Pumping:
If you’re pumping breast milk, you’re probably wondering how many ounces of breast milk for a 4-month-old is enough.
Baby needs about 25 ounces of breast milk per day. So you’ll need to divide that by how many feedings baby typically
has. So if you feed baby about eight times per day, he should get about 3.1 ounces of breast milk at each feeding.
To double-check that baby’s getting enough breast milk, you can check her diapers. How many wet diapers for a
four-month-old is healthy? About four or five very wet ones per day.
Here’s a 4-month-old schedule for breastfeeding or bottle-feeding.
4-Month-Old Feeding Schedule
Photo: Megan Rubey
4-Month-Old Sleep
Four-month-olds tend to throw us for a loop when it comes to sleep, switching up how long they’re sleeping and how much
they wake up at night; and they may even start to roll over in their crib. Here’s how to handle some common sleep
dilemmas at four months.
How much should a 4-month-old sleep?
Four-month-olds typically sleep about 15 hours a day; about 10 hours of that sleep is at night, and five hours is during
two or three daytime naps.
How long should a 4-month-old sleep?
Many 4-month-olds only wake once or twice during the night. It’s common for a 4-month-old nap schedule to consist of a
morning nap and an afternoon nap that are longer, along with a quick evening nap. Some babies at this age just take two
longer naps.
4-Month Old Sleep Schedule
Photo: Megan Rubey
My 4-month-old won’t sleep! Why?
At four months, some parents report that their good sleeper suddenly isn’t such a good sleeper. Or maybe their
4-month-old wakes up screaming more often in the middle of the night than they used to do.
There’s a term for this:
4-month-old sleep regression
. Babies this age don’t sleep as deeply as they used to; plus, their brains are more active, making them more alert. A
soothing sleep routine can help your baby get back to snoozing more soundly. So can getting baby used to falling asleep
on his own in the crib, rather than in your arms (we know—easier said than done!). Luckily, 4-month sleep regression
usually only lasts about two to six weeks.
Can I sleep train my 4-month-old?
This is a personal choice, but some experts say you can start sleep training between 4 months old and 6 months old.
Signs baby might be ready for sleep training are that he’s gotten into regular sleep routine and that he’s dropped most
of his middle-of-the-night feedings. Read more about
how to sleep train a baby
to see if it’s right for your family.
Is it okay for my baby to sleep on his stomach?
You should be putting baby down in the crib on his back, to reduce the risk of SIDS. So if you’ve got a 4-month-old
sleeping on his stomach, you’ve got a roller on your hands!
And letting baby sleep on his stomach can be a scary notion after you’ve been taking all of these precautions the whole
time. But it’s safe to let your baby sleep on his tummy occasionally, if he’s strong enough to lift his head and to roll
completely over.
Another safety tip: You should stop swaddling your baby, if you haven’t already, once he starts rolling over.
4-Month-Old Schedule
Now that you’ve got an active, playful baby on your hands, you’re probably looking for more things to do with a
4-month-old. Check out this
list of baby activities
that will give you an idea of 4-month-old activities, as well as things to do with baby as she grows.
4-Month-Old Schedule Example
A 4-month-old’s daily schedule might look something like this.
Photo: Megan Rubey
4-Month-Old Baby Checklist / Tips
Take baby to her
four-month-old checkup
.
4-month-old vaccines
: The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends a second dose of the pneumococcal (PCV13), DTaP, Hib, poliovirus and
Rotavirus immunizations at the four-month visit. Talk to your doctor if you’re concerned about
4-month-old shot side effects
.
Schedule baby’s
five-month checkup
.
Decide, along with your pediatrician, whether or not to start baby on solids this month.
Regularly check the floor for small objects that are choking hazards, since baby’s putting
everything
in his mouth!
Take baby’s 4-month-old baby photo.5 Month Old Baby
Your baby is five months old!
Feeling a bit like a coach? You’ve been giving baby tons of encouragement over the past month —as he’s (probably!)
trying to sit up by himself. Give him the space to try on his own, but stay within arm’s reach, just in case he starts
to topple. You’re probably also inspiring his language by having conversations around the house. The ultimate reward for
all your efforts will be when you (will soon) hear those wonderful words: "mama" and "dada."
5-Month-Old Development
Your busy 5-month-old baby is working on a number of skills that’ll really come in handy for moving around and getting
things done, and he’s working on getting bigger too.
5-Month-Old Baby Weight & Length
You probably want to know:
How much should my 5-month-old weigh?
The average weight for a 5-month-old baby is 15.2 pounds for girls and 16.6 pounds for boys; the average length (aka
height) is 25.2 inches for girls and 25.9 inches for boys.
Of course that doesn’t mean
your
5-month-old should weigh and measure exactly that. Remember: Healthy babies tend to follow a natural growth curve,
staying within the same percentile range as they grow older. As long as baby’s sticking to the curve, that’s an
indicator of healthy growth. And your baby most likely gained about 1 to 1.25 pounds since last month!
“5-month-old growth spurt" isn’t a phrase you normally hear—but it’s well known that babies tend to have growth spurts
around four months and around six months, and you’re right smack in the middle of that. As we know, not every baby is
exactly the same, so if you suspect yours is having a growth spurt—is extra hungry and feeding like crazy for a few
days—then he probably is.
Five Senses
Baby’s ability to distinguish between different colors is improving—it’s not just the bright, bold colors she can tell
apart but now it’s pastels and other subtle colors too.
Baby can now spot a toy just out of reach, and grab it. Go baby!
Baby will turn his head to hear a rattling sound and may start to turn his head when he hears a voice.
He’s listening to what you’re saying and may soon start to imitate your words. Once he starts making some sounds he
likes—“oh” or “ah” maybe—he might keep on repeating them. How cute!
5-Month-Old Milestones
What do 5-month-old babies do? Here’s an idea of what’s likely going on with yours this month:
Baby is fascinated by his hands and may have started bringing both of them together. (Patty-cake time!)
He's likely reaching with both hands, grasping things and holding them using all his fingers.
He’s about ready to start learning about object permanence. Hide an object and then reveal it, so baby will start to
learn that things still exist when he can't see them.
He’s either started rolling over, or is swaying side-to-side, getting ready to reach this milestone. Average age to
start to roll from tummy to back is four months; after that, baby will start to roll back to tummy. A 5-month-old not
rolling over isn’t a cause for concern but if baby isn’t at least
trying
to roll at her 6-month checkup, you should let the pediatrician know.
For your 5-month-old, crawling may be on the horizon. Babies tend to hit this milestone between 6 to 10 months, but some
especially determined babies get started earlier than that.
Is My 5-Month-Old Healthy?
Having a baby sometimes feels like one minor illness after another. These are some common health questions parents of
5-month-old babies ask:
Can a
5-month-old be teething
? (Yes!)
How
often should a 5-month-old poop
?
My
5-month-old is constipated
. How can I get my 5-month-old baby to poop?
My
5-month-old has diarrhea
. What should I do?
My
5-month-old baby a cough
. What should I do for my 5-month-old with cough?
My
5-month-old is vomiting
. How can I help my 5-month-old who’s throwing up?
My
5-month-old has a fever
. What should I do?
My
5-month-old has a stuffy nose
. How can I help my 5-month-old who’s congested?
5-Month-Old Baby Feeding
Feeding baby may be getting more complicated than it used to be. Nursing may have turned into nursing and pumping;
bottles may have turned into bottles and baby food.
How much should a 5-month-old eat? How often should 5-month-old eat?
Your baby breastfeeds or bottle-feeds every three to five hours and may have started eating solid foods about three
times per day.
Bottle feeding:
How much formula for a 5-month-old baby? Many babies this age eat four ounces of formula about six times a day.
Breastfeeding:
You should be nursing baby every three or four hours but each breastfed baby may be slightly different. What’s important
is that baby seems content, your boobs seem to have been emptied (they’re soft) and baby’s gaining weight healthily.
Pumping:
If you’re pumping breast milk, you’re probably wondering how many ounces of breast milk for a 5-month-old is enough.
Typically, a baby needs about 25 ounces of breast milk per day. So you’ll need to divide that by how many feedings your
baby typically has. So if you feed baby about eight times per day, he should get about 3.1 ounces of breast milk at each
feeding. That’s how much milk a 5-month-old should drink.
To double-check that baby’s getting enough breast milk, you can check her diapers. How many wet diapers for a
5-month-old is healthy? About four or five very wet ones per day.
What can baby eat this month? How much baby food for a 5-month-old is recommended?
Solid foods:
If you and baby’s pediatrician have decided to feed baby solids, go slow and follow baby’s cues. You might start out
with one ounce at a meal and gradually increase the amount to about three ounces three times a day, if it seems like
baby enjoys eating that much. How much fruit and veggies or how much rice cereal for a 5-month-old largely depends on
the baby. The longer baby’s been eating solids and the more he’s interested in eating them, the more you should feel
free to feed him—up to three ounces, three times per day.
Can I give my 5-month-old water?
Typically, doctors say to wait until baby’s eating solid food before introducing water to baby. So if he’s eating baby
food, you can probably give him some sips of water too. Just don’t overdo it—baby can get full by drinking water, which
means he’ll be missing out on the nutrients he needs from breast milk, formula or solid food.
5-Month-Old Feeding Schedule
Photo: Megan Rubey
5-Month-Old Sleep
How much should my 5-month-old sleep? How long should a 5-month-old sleep?
How many hours a 5-month-old should sleep depends on the baby! Just like everything else, there’s a range—there are big
sleepers and not-so-big sleepers—and oftentimes the amount baby sleeps depends on his own unique sleep personality.
A 5-month-old baby tends to sleep around 15 hours a day, including about up to 10 hours at night (some babies wake at
night and others don’t!) and two or three naps, adding up to around five hours of daytime sleep.
Here’s a typical sleep schedule for a 5-month-old baby.
5-Month-Old Sleep Schedule
Photo: Megan Rubey
My 5-month-old won’t sleep! Why?
We hear parents say “My 5-month-old wakes up every hour” or “He used to sleep and now suddenly he’s not!”
A 5-month-old not sleeping could be for a variety of reasons but one of the most common is sleep regression. At this
age, sleep regression is common because babies naturally begin to sleep less deeply, and their brains have developed and
become more active. A soothing sleep routine can help your baby get back to snoozing more soundly. So can getting baby
used to falling asleep in his own in the crib, rather than in your arms (we know—easier said than done!). Luckily, 4- or
5-month sleep regression usually only lasts about two to six weeks. Read more tips for dealing with
sleep regression
.
Is sleep-training a 5-month-old a good idea?
Maybe! Some families swear by sleep training, others think letting your baby cry—yes, there are usually tears
involved—feels cruel.
If your 5-month-old does not sleep through the night, and you’re interested in giving sleep training a try, now is
probably a good time. Experts say babies might be ready for sleep training if they’ve gotten into regular sleep routine
and have dropped most of his middle-of-the-night feedings. Read more about
how sleep-train a baby
to see if it’s right for your family.
Is a five-month-old sleeping on his stomach okay?
Continue to put baby to bed lying on his back to reduce SIDS risk. Once he starts rolling onto his tummy, there’s really
not much you can do about letting him sleep in that position. In fact, a lot of babies find stomach sleeping
really
comfy. Some worried parents feel the need to go into the nursery and flip baby over but rest assured that once baby can
lift his head and shoulders and can roll over on his own, it’s okay for him to sleep on his stomach.
5-Month-Old Schedule
Looking for things to do with a 5-month-old baby. Check out this
list of baby activities
that will give you an idea of 5-month-old activities, as well as things to do with baby as he grows.
5-Month-Old Baby Schedule Example
A 5-month-old's daily schedule might look something like this.
Photo: Megan Rubey
5-Month-Old Baby Checklist/Tips
Schedule baby’s
six-month checkup
, if you haven’t already.
Put an unbreakable baby mirror in front of baby’s face and watch his delight as he admires and entertains himself.
Need a new car seat for your 5-month-old baby? Look into a
convertible seat
that can be positioned both backward (until age 2 or 3) and forward (after that).
Take baby’s 5-month-old baby photo.6 Month Old Baby
Your baby is 6 months old!
Can you believe you’re halfway through baby’s first year?! By 6 months, baby is probably pretty opinionated. She might
scream when someone other than you holds her. Can you blame her? If a stranger tried to hug you, you'd give them a "back
off, buddy" reaction too. Baby is also starting to develop food likes and dislikes as you introduce new flavors to her.
For now though, she’s pretty easy to please at mealtime. (Look out for picky eating later!) One thing she
really
likes is her name. Now, she recognizes it and shows excitement when you say it.
6-Month-Old Development
You might notice your 6-month-old have a growth spurt, putting about a pound on this past month and more than a half a
pound next month. During growth spurts, babies tend to act a little differently than their norm, perhaps wanting to feed
more often or being a teeny bit cranky. Luckily, a growth spurt usually only lasts a few days.
6-Month-Old Baby Weight & Length
How much should a 6-month-old weigh? Average weight of a 6-month-old is 16.1 pounds for girls and 17.5 pounds for boys.
Average length (height!) is 25.9 inches for girls and 26.6 inches for girls.
Average or “normal” weight for a 6-month-old baby doesn’t tell the whole story though. Babies, just like adults, have
different body types, and just because your baby doesn’t fall near the 50th percentile doesn’t mean she isn’t healthy.
Instead, look to her rate of growth—the doctor will plot it on a growth chart. As long as baby continues on the expected
upward swing, things are considered A-okay growth-wise.
Five Senses
Baby’s depth perception is still improving. She can look across the room at you and at her blocks on the floor.
She’s also looking at things more closely. You probably notice her fascination in examining her toys. (And the
examination continues with her mouth too!)
Most six-month-olds respond quickly to noises, turning their head quickly when they hear something. Male and female
adult voices may start to sound very different to her.
Baby’s interested in touching different textures and shapes and is even touching her own body a lot to get to know how
it feels all over.
6-Month-Old Milestones
What should my 6-month-old be doing?
Baby may have already started babbling vowel sounds, but she may be working some consonants in there too. About half of
six-month-olds will repeat the same consonant sound over and over: dadadada, babababa, mamamama, etc.
She’s probably also laughing and giggling up a storm.
Baby probably rolls in both directions: back to front and front to back.
She “rakes” or picks up small objects by pushing them with her hand toward herself.
Baby sits up—but probably with some help. She’ll get there soon.
She soon may start to pass objects from one hand to the other.
6-Month-Old Teething
It’s common for babies to start teething around this age. If baby has been crying more than usual, has been drooling and
perhaps has swollen gums, a low fever or trouble sleeping, you may have a teething 6-month-old on your hands. A
6-month-old refusing the bottle can be a sign of teething too.
Here are some great tips
to help make her feel comfortable as she cuts that first (or second or third or…) tooth.
Is My 6-Month-Old Healthy?
There are some common health questions parents of six-month-olds ask. These include:
How
often should a 6-month-old poop
? (It’s complicated.)
My
6-month-old is constipated
. What should I do? How much prune juice for a six-month-old who’s constipated? (Two to four ounces per day.)
My
6-month-old has diarrhea
. What should I do?
My
6-month-old has a cough
. What should I do?
I have a
6-month-old with a fever
. What’s a normal temperature for a 6-month-old? What should I do?
How often should I bathe my 6-month-old? A few times a week is fine!
6-Month-Old Baby Food
How much should a 6-month-old eat?
Bottle feeding:
How much formula for a 6-month-old? Typically six to eight ounces about six times a day.
Breastfeeding:
How often should a 6-month-old nurse? Feedings are still typically about every three or four hours but each breastfed
baby may be slightly different. What’s important is that baby seems content, your boobs seem to have been emptied
(they’re soft) and baby’s gaining weight healthily.
Pumping:
If you’re pumping breast milk, you’re probably wondering how many ounces of breast milk for a 6-month-old is enough.
Typically, a baby needs about 25 ounces of breast milk per day. So you’ll need to divide that by how many feedings your
baby typically has. So if you feed baby about six times per day, he should get about 4.2 ounces of breast milk at each
feeding, for example.
Solid foods:
Almost all babies are ready to eat solid foods at six months old. If you and baby’s pediatrician have decided to feed
baby solids, go slow and follow baby’s cues.
How much baby food for a 6-month-old?
You might start out with one ounce of baby food at a meal and gradually increase the amount to about three ounces, three
times a day, if it seems like baby enjoys eating that much. How much fruit and veggies or how much cereal for a
6-month-old largely depends on the baby. The longer baby’s been eating solids and the more he’s interested in eating
them, the more you should feel free to feed him—up to three ounces, three times per day.
6-Month-Old Feeding Schedule
Photo: Megan Rubey
What can baby eat this month?
Start out with pureed fruits, veggies or whole-grain cereal. Just introduce one food every three to four days, and in
the meantime, look for signs of an allergic reaction in your baby. (Tell your doctor if you suspect one.)
What to feed a 6-month-old baby—these foods are excellent choices for baby’s first foods:
Banana
Avocado
Sweet potato
Brown rice cereal
Oatmeal baby cereal
Pear
Butternut squash
Acorn squash
Can I give my 6-month-old water?
Yes! Just don’t overdo it—baby can get full by drinking water, which means he’ll be missing out on the nutrients he
needs from breast milk, formula and/or solid food. How much water can a 6-month-old have? Around four to six ounces of
water per day is okay—as long as baby is still getting enough formula (up to 32 ounces per day) or breast milk (six to
eight feedings per day).
6-Month-Old Baby Sleep
Here are some answers to common sleep questions of parents of 6-month-olds.
How Much Should a 6-Month-Old Sleep?
It’s common to wonder:
How much (or how many hours of) sleep does a 6-month-old need?
Most babies this age sleep around 14 to 15 hours per day. Ten or 11 of those hours may come at night, and the rest
(three to four hours) come during the day. Some 6-month-old babies have dropped their third nap and are only napping
twice a day now.
Here’s an example of a 6-month-old sleep and nap schedule.
6-Month Old Sleep Schedule
Photo: Megan Rubey
My 6-month-old won’t sleep! Why?
Moms we know often complain that suddenly their 6-month-old won’t sleep through the night anymore or that their
6-month-old is waking up every two hours. There are a number of things that could cause 6-month-old sleep regression.
Babies might start waking in the middle of the night because of illness or teething pain. During a growth spurt, they
might be extra hungry and want to feed more. Now that they’re learning how to roll, creep and crawl, they might wake to
practice their new skills in the middle of the night. They might just miss their parents and want some cuddle time!
How can I sleep-train my 6-month-old?
Sleep-training a 6-month-old is tougher for some families than others. But the gist is that sleep-training takes
patience and maybe a few tears (for baby
and
for mom). You’ll want to gradually remove yourself from baby’s efforts to soothe herself to sleep. Babies, just like
adults, wake up throughout the night. But being able to go back to sleep on her own is what constitutes “sleeping
through the night.” Baby needs to practice in order to develop that skill. Here’s the full scoop on
how to sleep-train a 6-month-old
.
My 6-month-old is sleeping on stomach. Is that okay?
If your 6-month-old baby sleeps on her tummy, it’s probably totally fine, so long as she’s rolling over by herself and
able to hold up her head and shoulders. Still, put baby to sleep on her back. If she chooses to flip to her tummy, you
shouldn’t worry about SIDS at this point.
6-Month-Old Schedule
A six-month-old’s day is much less about sleeping and more about
doing
than it used to be. If you’re looking for things to do with a 6-month-old baby, try playing with soft balls and textured
toys that make sounds. Simple musical instruments, such as maracas, are great toys for this age too. Other fun
activities for a 6-month-old baby include reading board books together. You can even give your baby an old magazine to
flip though—if you don’t mind it getting ripped up!
Remember: Fun time with baby can include running errands and exercise for you, so get grocery shopping done while
talking to baby about the red apples and green lettuce.
6-Month-Old Schedule Example
A 6-month-old’s daily schedule might look something like this.
Photo: Megan Rubey
6-Month-Old Baby Checklist/Tips
Take baby to her
six-month checkup
.
Vaccines: The American Academy of Pediatrics recommends a third dose of the pneumococcal (PCV13), DTaP, Hib, poliovirus,
Rotavirus and Hepatitis B immunizations at the six-month visit.
Ask the doctor about a flu shot for baby; she’s now old enough.
Schedule baby’s
nine-month checkup
.
Introduce water to baby in a sippy cup, if you haven’t already.
Double check that the house is
baby-proofed
well. Baby will be crawling very soon!
Take baby’s 6-month-old baby photo.7 Month Old Baby
Your baby is 7 months old!
As baby’s prepping herself for crawling, you’ve got to get your home ready. We know you probably baby-proofed when baby
first came home, but having a crawler changes everything. Get down on your hands and knees to see what hazards are
around that you'll need to guard against. That includes anything baby could tumble over, bump into, climb, cut or pinch
herself on, or get tangled in. Also, make sure anything that could fall onto your child (a dresser, a bookshelf, the TV)
is securely strapped into place, and be cautious to keep all choking hazards out of her reach—that includes looking for
small things that easily drop on the floor unnoticed, like coins.
7-Month-Old Development
In the last three months, baby’s probably grown about 2 inches and her head circumference may have grown about an inch.
She’s still developing her senses and skills that will lead to more independence.
7-Month-Old Baby Weight & Length
Many parents find themselves wondering
How much does a 7-month-old weigh?
Or
How much should a 7-month-old weigh?
Average weight of a 7-month old is 16.8 pounds for girls and 18.3 pounds for boys. Average length is 26.5 inches for
girls and 27.2 inches for boys, according to the World Health Organization.
But don’t get too caught up with the “normal” weight of a 7-month-old baby. Height and weight can vary widely between
healthy babies, so as long as your baby is growing at a healthy rate—on a steady upward curve on the chart at the
doctor’s office—and the pediatrician doesn’t see any signs of a problem, your baby’s growth is right on track.
Five Senses
Baby’s distance vision is improving. And she can see everything in full color now.
The parts of baby’s brain dealing with sound processing have developed, which means baby can fully process and
understand a range of sounds.
She’s been listening to your voice and may try to copy the pattern and tones of your voice when she babbles. So chatty!
7-Month-Old Milestones
What should a 7-month-old be doing? Remember, all babies develop at their own rate, but this is a peek at what might be
happening with your baby this month.
Baby might be able to sit up by herself without any help! Though she might have to keep her hands on the floor to stay
upright. Over the next couple months, she’ll keep developing this skill.
She’s starting to work on fine-tuning her grasp. Now, baby probably picks things up with her whole hand, but she’ll soon
start working on the “pincer grasp,” where she’ll pick things up with her pointer finger and thumb.
She bears weight on her legs when you hold her upright. She babbles and imitates sounds. She knows what things to do to
attract your attention (and isn’t it adorable?).
Is My 7-Month-Old Healthy?
Click through for answers to some of 7-month-olds’ parents’ biggest health questions.
My
7-month-old is constipated
. What should I do?
My
7-month-old has diarrhea
. What should I do?
My
7-month-old is vomiting
. What should I do?
I have a
7-month-old with a fever
. What should I do?
Could my 7-month-old’s
fever be because of teething
? (Yes!)
My
7-month-old has a cough
. What should I do?
7-Month-Old Baby Food
At seven months, baby is eating some solid foods but her main source of nutrition is still breast milk or formula.
How much should a 7-month-old eat? How often should a 7-month-old eat?
Bottle feeding:
How much formula for a 7-month-old baby? A seven-month-old should be drinking about six to eight ounces of formula, four
to six times per day.
Breastfeeding:
Seven-month-olds still typically nurse about every three or four hours.
Pumping:
If you’re pumping, baby needs a total of about 25 ounces of breast milk per day. So you’ll need to divide that by how
many feedings your baby typically has. For example, if you feed baby about six times per day, he should get about 4.2
ounces of breast milk at each feeding.
Solid food:
How much solid food for a 7-month-old? Baby should be starting to get three meals of solid food each day. Depending on
the baby, a meal might be as little as a tablespoon or two or as much as four to six ounces (eight to 12 tablespoons) of
baby food.
What Can Baby Eat This Month?
What to feed your 7-month-old baby is mostly up to you! There aren’t strict guidelines about when to feed baby certain
foods, but you do want to stick to nutritious, unprocessed foods that are pureed or runny enough for your new eater to
chew. You can’t go wrong with mashed or pureed fruits and veggies and whole grain baby cereal.
Here are some nutritious options
.
Be aware that there are a few foods you should avoid giving baby just yet. This includes honey, cow’s milk and hard
veggies, whole nuts and anything else that could be a choking hazard.
Can a 7-month-old eat eggs?
Eggs make some parents nervous because of the allergy risk. In the past, pediatricians used to tell parents to wait
until 9 months to introduce egg yolk to baby, and to wait until 12 months to give baby the egg white.
But newer food allergy research suggests that most babies
should not
avoid allergenic foods entirely. And in fact, that it might benefit baby to introduce them earlier.
The short answer is: Yes, you can probably give baby eggs, but talk to baby’s doctor and decide together. (Baby’s
allergy risk may come into play.) And as with introducing any new food, watch your baby for signs of an allergic
reaction in the following days.
Can I give my 7-month-old finger foods?
Probably not. At 7 months, your baby might not yet have developed the pincer grasp needed to pick up finger foods. When
baby
is
ready, make sure the foods are very soft and cut very small, so baby can more easily gnash them with her gums.
Here’s a sample 7-month-old feeding schedule with solids:
7-Month-Old Feeding Schedule
Photo: Megan Rubey
7-Month-Old Sleep
Sleep! Parents with babies
always
have questions about sleep. Here, we answer the biggest ones.
How much should a 7-month-old sleep?
Baby sleeps about 14 to 15 hours per day—six to 11 of those hours are at night. Some babies sleep through the night at
this age but others may still be waking up in the wee hours. It’s typical for a 7-month-old baby to have about two naps
totaling three or four hours of daytime sleep.
Here’s an example of a 7-month-old sleep and nap schedule.
7-Month Old Sleep Schedule
Photo: Megan Rubey
My 7-month-old won’t sleep! Why?
In a 7-month-old baby, sleep regression can happen for several reasons. Babies might start waking in the middle of the
night because of illness or teething pain. During a growth spurt, they might be extra hungry and want to feed more. Now
that they’re learning how to roll, creep and crawl, they might wake to practice their new skills in the middle of the
night. They might just miss their parents and want some cuddle time!
How can I begin sleep-training a 7-month-old?
To sleep-train your baby, you’ll want to gradually remove yourself from baby’s efforts to soothe herself to sleep.
Babies, just like adults, wake up throughout the night. But being able to go back to sleep on her own is what will give
her the ability to “sleep through the night.” Baby needs to practice in order to develop that skill. Here’s the full
scoop on
how to sleep train a 7-month-old baby
.
Is a 7-month-old sleeping on her stomach okay?
Stomach sleeping is probably totally fine, so long as baby is skillfully rolling over by herself and able to hold up her
head and shoulders. Still, put baby to sleep on her back. If she chooses to flip to her tummy, you shouldn’t worry about
SIDS at this point.
7-Month-Old Schedule
Baby’s daily schedule seems to be constantly changing and evolving but this month’s routine probably looks pretty
similar to the one she had last month—though we hope you’re getting more uninterrupted nighttime sleep!
7-Month-Old Schedule Example
A 7-month-old’s daily schedule might look something like this.
Photo: Megan Rubey
7-Month-Old Baby Checklist/Tips
Schedule baby’s
nine-month checkup
, if you haven’t already.
Introduce a high chair—if you haven’t already—for baby to enjoy meals with the rest of the family and work on feeding
herself from the tray.
Does baby
need a new car seat
? A car seat for a 7-month-old baby should be rear-facing (until age 2 or 3). We recommend a
convertible seat
that can be used for at least another year or two.
Flip through baby’s favorite board books, or a colorful magazine, with her and describe what’s in the pictures.
Looking for games to play with a 7-month-old? Get
baby activity ideas here
.
Take baby’s 7-month-old baby photo.8 Month Old Baby
Your baby is eight months old!
Baby has become quite the observer. He’s very aware of his surroundings and what’s happening around him. If you have a
tendency to lose your cool in high-pressure situations, you'll want to dial the emotions back—baby's watching and
learning. One thing that probably stresses out your eight-month-old baby is separating from you. If baby fusses when you
leave him, try not to let it get to you. It’s baby’s way of telling you he misses you! And separation anxiety is
actually an indicator of a good parent-child bond. Plus, baby’s caregiver will be able to distract him and stop the
crying pretty quickly after you leave.
8-Month-Old Development
Baby keeps on growing—and keeps on going! It’s unbelievable how much your little one is moving these days, isn’t it?
8-Month-Old Baby Weight & Length
We know you’re wondering:
How much should an 8-month-old weigh?
Average weight for an 8-month-old baby is 17.5 pounds for girls. Average 8-month-old weight is 19.0 pounds for boys.
Average length is 27.1 inches for girls and 27.8 inches for boys, according to the World Health Organization.
Of course, height and weight can vary widely between healthy babies, so as long as baby is growing at a healthy rate—on
a steady curve on the chart at the doctor’s office—and the pediatrician doesn’t see any signs of a problem, your baby’s
growth is right on track.
Five Senses
Baby still sees better close up than far away but is now able to spot things from across the room.
She can better eyeball distance and depth, making it easier to reach out and grab things.
Textures and shapes are captivating to baby! Tags and handles might seem especially exciting to touch and feel, and
baby’s making the connection that different shapes are, well, different!
8-Month-Old Milestones
What Should my 8-Month-Old Be Doing?
Sitting.
He can probably sit up by himself—but you'll still need to catch him sometimes—and is beginning to lean over to pick up
toys.
Moving and grooving.
After sitting comes rolling, crouching, twisting and rocking while kneeling. All of this is gearing up for crawling (if
he hasn't yet!). When baby’s on the floor, he's in constant motion!
Getting ready to crawl.
Some 8-month-olds who are not crawling are rolling around, “creeping” or scooting to get where they want to go. If your
8-month-old is not crawling, she’s still within the normal range; some babies crawl closer to 10 months. Others skip
crawling altogether and go straight to walking!
Is My 8-Month-Old Healthy?
Having a baby seems like a never-ending search for answers to health questions. Here are some common things parents ask:
My
8-month-old is constipated
. What should I do?
My
8-month-old has diarrhea
. What should I do?
My
8-month-old is vomiting
. What should I do?
My
8-month-old has a fever
. What should I do?
8-Month-Old Baby Feeding
Now that baby’s eating solid foods—and still drinking formula or breast milk—it’s easy to get overwhelmed by how much of
what he should be consuming. Just remember: The fluids are still where an eight-month-old baby gets the majority of his
nutrition.
Think about it this way: Your baby needs between 750 and 900 calories per day. Four hundred to 500 of those should come
from breast milk or formula. So start the meal off with nursing or a bottle of formula. And then offer baby a meal with
a healthy balance of fats, carbohydrates and protein.
At eight months, you might want to add soft table foods and finger foods with different textures to baby’s menu. Have
baby join the family at the table for meals—it's a great way to foster good eating habits!
Eight months old is a good time to introduce a sippy cup to your baby. At first, it might be more of a plaything than a
cup, but it’s good to get your kid familiar with the sippy early. It might just have her becoming a cup-drinker easier
and earlier.
How much should an 8-month-old eat?
Bottle feeding:
How much formula for a 8-month-old? An 8-month-old baby should be consuming about 24 ounces of formula in a 24-hour
period. So if baby has six bottles each day, make them each four ounces.
Breastfeeding:
Eight-month-olds still typically nurse about every three or four hours.
Pumping:
If you’re pumping, an 8-month-old baby needs a total of about 25 ounces of breast milk per day. So you’ll need to divide
that by how many feedings your baby typically has. For example, if you feed baby about eight times per day, he should
get about 3.1 ounces of breast milk at each feeding. Keep pumping each time baby has a bottle, and you should be able to
keep up your breast milk supply.
Solid food:
Baby should have three meals and two snacks per day. Try to stick to non-processed, unsweetened or unsalted foods as
much as possible.
What Should an 8-Month-Old Be Eating?
Good foods for an 8-month-old baby may include:
Apples
Avocado
Barley
Carrot
Cheddar cheese
Egg yolk
Quinoa
Mango
Pasta
Pumpkin
Rice
Sweet potatoes
Tofu
Turkey
Zucchini
Finger foods for an 8-month-old baby can be any of the above, if cooked until soft (except for avocado and tofu, which
don’t need to be cooked) and cut or ground into very small bits.
8-Month-Old Feeding Schedule
Photo: Megan Rubey
8-Month-Old Sleep
How much should an eight-month-old sleep?
It’s typical for an eight-month-old to sleep a total of about 15 hours each day. About 11 hours of that should be at
nighttime. Your baby still probably wakes at night, but sleeps a longer stretch. Some babies even sleep through the
night the full 10 to 12 hours at 8 months—if that’s your baby, lucky you!
A typical 8-month-old nap schedule includes two naps that total about three-and-a-half hours of daytime sleep.
8-Month Old Sleep Schedule
Photo: Megan Rubey
Is 8-month-old sleep regression normal?
Yes! Some babies start waking up more at night around 8 months. A lot of times they’re getting up to practice their
newfound motor skills: pulling themselves up to stand and maybe even cruising. The problem is, they don’t always know
how to get back down and call out to you for help! Others want extra time with mom or dad—and may be more likely to wake
at night if you’re separated during the day (sorry, working moms.) So if your 8-month-old suddenly wakes up every hour
or your 8-month-old is not sleeping when and how he used to, you can probably chalk it up to sleep regression.
Be as patient as you can be, reinstate some of the sleep tricks that used to work when baby was younger and
try out some new tricks
to try to help baby’s sleep get back to normal.
What are some tips for sleep-training an 8-month-old?
Sleep-training isn’t always easy—and it isn’t for every baby—but if successful, sleep-training will help your baby learn
to self-soothe. The idea is that if he wakes up at night, baby will know how to get himself back to sleep. Here’s some
awesome sleep-training advice
that can help you on your way to a good night’s sleep for the whole family.
8-Month-Old Schedule
Your eight-month-old is now awake for about 10 hours per day. Beyond feedings, bathtime and play-on-the-floor time,
you’re probably looking for other things to do with an 8-month-old baby. Check out this
list of baby activities
that will give you an idea of things to do now, as well as things to do with baby as she grows.
8-Month-Old Schedule Example
A 8-month-old’s daily schedule might look something like this.
Photo: Megan Rubey
8-Month-Old Baby Checklist / Tips
Schedule baby’s
nine-month checkup
, if you haven’t already.
Introduce a sippy cup.
Give baby her own kitchen cupboard full of baby-safe items (wooden spoons, plasticware and measuring cups!), and put
locks on the rest.
Introduce soft finger foods in very small bits for baby to easily gnash.
Take baby’s 8-month-old baby photo.9 Month Old Baby
Your baby is nine months old!
Look at all baby has achieved! Your nine-month-old baby is probably sitting (with or without support), pulling up to
standing, clapping her hands and maybe even working on crawling and cruising. She also loves picking up food to feed
herself using her index finger and thumb in the "pincer" grasp. With these abilities, life has really become an
adventure for baby—and you, as you've been following her as she explores, pointing her toward new things to examine and
touch. You’re probably watching one resourceful baby, as she uses furniture and other objects to support herself while
moving around a room. As usual, keep your eyes on baby at all times, because she's surprisingly fast and can easily take
a tumble, since she’s still mastering her balance skills.
9-Month-Old Development
Baby’s not just
developing
quickly, she’s growing by leaps and bounds! In fact, baby might just shoot up like crazy this month. It’s common for
babies to have a growth spurt around nine months.
9-Month-Old Baby Weight & Length
We know you’re wondering:
How much should a 9-month-old weigh?
Average weight for a 9-month-old baby is 18.1 pounds for girls and 19.6 pounds for boys. Average length is 27.6 inches
for girls and 28.3 inches for boys, according to the World Health Organization.
Of course, height and weight can vary widely between healthy babies, so as long as your baby is growing at a healthy
rate—on a steady curve on the chart at the doctor’s office—and the pediatrician doesn’t see any signs of a problem, your
baby’s growth is right on track.
Your baby is likely growing nearly half an inch this month and gaining three to five ounces each week.
Five Senses
Baby’s vision keeps getting better. Now she can see well across the room.
She can easily recognize familiar faces and objects
Baby knows there are things she can’t see—that’s called object permanence. She’ll remember a toy and look for it.
Baby can recognize familiar sounds too. She may understand words she hears often, such as no, bottle, mama and dada.
9-Month-Old Milestones
What Should a 9-Month-Old Be Doing?
Here are some milestones your nine-month-old baby may have hit or may be working on:
Crawling.
Nine months is the average age babies start to crawl, which means yours might have been doing it for a while, or you’re
still waiting for her to start. A 9-month-old not crawling is not typically a cause for concern. In fact, doctors say
some perfectly healthy and well-developed babies never crawl at all—they jump straight to walking!
Standing.
Your 9-month-old baby may be able to hold on to the couch or coffee table to stand himself up. Next comes cruising,
which means walking around with the support of the furniture. You know what comes next after that!
Sitting.
What’s most fun to a nine-month-old might be sitting for long periods of time, playing with toy and objects. Your baby
loves to use his hands to do just about everything!
Pincer grasp.
Nine-month-olds may begin to pick things up using their pointer finger and thumb—known as the pincer grasp. This really
comes in handy when feeding and playing.
Babbling.
Most nine-month-old babies make sounds like mamamama and dadadada—they may even use them to describe their parents.
If baby’s not doing everything other nine-month-olds are doing, it isn’t reason to worry. But there are certain things
that could be signs of developmental delay. Tell the pediatrician if baby:
Doesn’t put weight on her legs when you hold her upright above a surface.
Doesn’t sit with propping or holding.
Doesn’t babble sounds like “mama,” “baba” and “dada".
Doesn’t play games that require back-and-forth play.
Doesn’t respond to her name.
Doesn’t seem to recognize familiar people.
Doesn’t look where you point.
Doesn’t pass toys from one hand to the other.
Is My 9-Month-Old Healthy?
At nine months old, your baby is due for another checkup with the pediatrician, where she’ll have her weight, height and
head circumference measured. She’ll get a physical exam and a blood test to check for low iron and traces of lead. If
you have specific concerns or questions about your nine-month-old’s health, now’s the time to ask the doc!
9-Month-Old Baby Food & Diet
Hello, independent baby! If your baby drinks from a bottle, she might hold it herself by now—and baby might even be
starting to get the hang of a sippy cup. As for solid foods, she’s probably into the idea of feeding those to herself
too.
How much should a 9-month-old eat?
Bottle feeding:
How many ounces should a 9-month-old drink? It should total about 24 to 32 ounces in a 24-hour period. In other words,
if baby has a bottle or sippy cup six times per day, they should each have about four to six ounces of formula in them.
Breastfeeding:
Feedings are still typically about every three or four hours but each breastfed baby may be slightly different. What’s
important is that baby seems content, your boobs seem to have been emptied (they’re soft) and baby’s gaining weight
healthily.
Pumping:
A breastfed baby needs about 25 ounces of breast milk per day. So you’ll need to divide that by how many feedings your
baby typically has. So if you feed baby about eight times per day, he should get about 3.1 ounces of breast milk at each
feeding.
Solid food:
If you’re wondering what to feed a 9-month-old baby, it’s simpler than it may seem. Baby should have three small meals
plus two snacks (kind of like you!), and doctors recommend feeding baby whole foods, without much that’s processed or
has added sugar or salt. Give baby a variety of foods in different food groups and different colors of the rainbow:
yellow bananas, red peppers, green avocado, orange sweet potatoes, white tofu, brown whole grain cereal. Baby should be
getting protein, carbohydrates and fats in every meal.
To double-check that baby’s getting enough breast milk or formula, you can check her diapers. How many wet diapers for a
nine-month-old is healthy? About four or five very wet ones per day is considered ideal.
What can baby eat this month?
What finger foods can I feed my 9-month-old?
Now that baby’s working on his pincer grasp, finger foods are a go. Offer his favorite soft-cooked veggies cut into
small pieces, bits of banana or avocado, or tiny cooked pasta pieces. You can’t go wrong with the ever-popular Cheerios.
Can a 9-month-old eat eggs?
Many parents of nine-month-olds ask about eggs. The advice used to be to avoid giving babies eggs before their first
birthday, but that recommendation is changing. Egg is a common allergen, and the old advice said egg yolk was okay
around nine months but to wait to introduce the egg white (which is more likely to cause an allergic reaction).
But newer food allergy research suggests that babies
should not
avoid allergenic foods entirely. And in fact, that it might benefit baby to introduce them earlier.
The short answer is: Yes, you can give baby egg yolk at nine months. As for egg whites, talk to baby’s doctor and decide
together. (Baby’s allergy risk may come into play.) And as with introducing any new food, watch your baby for signs of
an allergic reaction in the following days.
9-Month-Old Feeding Schedule
Photo: Megan Rubey
9-Month-Old Sleep
The thing that’s constantly on parents’ minds: Sleep! There are some common questions moms and dads have about their
9-month-olds’ snooze time:
How much should a 9-month-old sleep?
A nine-month-old baby typically sleeps about 14 to 15 hours per day. Eleven hours of those are at night. About three
hours are divided between two daytime naps.
9-Month-Old Sleep Schedule
Photo: Megan Rubey
My 9-month-old is not sleeping through the night. Is that normal?
Yes, it’s normal! About 70 percent of nine-month-olds sleep eight to 12 hours at night without waking. But don’t let the
fact that your baby isn’t part of the majority get you down—babies don’t
need
to
sleep through the night
, even if you might
want
her to!
If you think baby needs a little extra nudging to start sleeping longer stretches, you might consider sleep-training.
Sleep-training a 9-month-old baby is totally doable—although there are some babies who resist.
Here’s more information
to help you decide if sleep-training is right for your family, as well as advice on how to do it.
My 9-month-old won’t sleep. Help!
In a 9-month-old, sleep regression is common. Because baby’s learning new skills, such as crawling, pulling herself up
to stand and cruising, she might decide she wants to practice them…
in the middle of the night.
Some older babies might decide they simply miss mom or dad!
The good news is, babies tend to grow out of regressions like this within a month or two. Until then, use some of these
moms’
tricks
to try to help baby (and you!) get more restful sleep.
9-Month-Old Schedule
Your nine-month-old is awake for about 10 hours per day and is more active than ever! You’re probably looking for ideas
of things to do with a 9-month-old baby. Check out this
list of baby activities
that will give you an idea of things to do now, as well as things to do with baby as she grows.
9-Month-Old Schedule Example
A 9-month-old’s daily schedule might look something like this.
Photo: Megan Rubey
9-Month-Old Baby Checklist/Tips
Take baby to her
nine-month checkup
. (No vaccines. Yay!)
Blood test: The doctor will test baby’s blood for lead and signs of anemia.
Schedule baby’s
12-month checkup
.
Does baby
need a new car seat
? A car seat for your 9-month-old baby should be rear-facing (until age 2 or 3), so look for a
convertible seat
that can be used for at least another year or two.
You can now use a small smear of fluoride toothpaste to brush baby’s teeth. (Teaching him to spit it out can be fun!)
Create a baby obstacle course with cushions baby can climb, scoot and cruise over and around, to help her experiment
with her movement skills.
Take baby’s 9-month-old baby photo.10 Month Old Baby
Your baby is 10 months old!
Life’s pretty chaotic because you have a soon-to-be toddler moving around your home and because you’re still probably
having some late nights. But don’t all those kisses and hugs you’re getting from your 10-month-old baby make it all
worth it? (You know, he’s doing that because you do it—you’ve set a great example for showing affection!)
10-Month-Old Development
Baby is getting bigger
and
smarter. Baby probably remembers where his favorite toys are and can understand when you give him simple instructions.
He’s very playful and may give you cues, like clasping his hands together when he wants you to join in on the play.
10-Month-Old Baby Weight & Length
How much should a 10-month-old weigh? The average weight of a 10-month-old baby is 18.7 pounds for girls and 20.2 pounds
for boys. Average length is 28.1 inches for girls and 28.9 inches for boys.
Baby may be growing about half an inch each month and gaining about .5 to 1 pound per month.
If baby doesn’t seem to be gaining much weight, you might wonder how to increase weight of a 10-month-old baby. Talk to
baby’s pediatrician about his specific case but in general, slower-than-average weight gain isn’t considered problematic
if baby’s gaining
some
weight, seems happy and healthy, and is hitting his milestones as expected. You do want the doctor to keep a close watch
just in case though. You can try increasing the number of times baby has a bottle or nurses throughout the day. Always
give him formula or breast milk
before
solids, since they’re where he should be getting most of his nutrition. You don’t want him to fill up too much on solids
before he gets his all-important milk.
Five Senses
Baby’s not just able to hear everyday sounds, but he recognizes them too—your voice, his older sister’s voice, the
doorbell, etc.
He may pay attention to the noises he knows are important and ignore the ones that aren’t.
Baby also knows what to do with his hands. When he has a rattle, he shakes it; when he sees a button on a toy, he pushes
it.
10-Month-Old Milestones
Wondering
What should a 10-month-old be doing?
Milestones at this age can vary from baby to baby, but here’s what baby might be up to.
Sitting.
Baby now can probably sit up without any support—maybe for as long as he likes.
Crawling.
Nine months is the average age babies start to crawl, which means yours might have been doing it for as long as a month
or so, or you’re still waiting for her to start. A 10-month-old not crawling is not typically a cause for concern. In
fact, doctors say some perfectly healthy and well-developed babies never crawl at all—they jump straight to walking!
Encourage baby to crawl by positioning her favorite toy just out of her reach—and cheer her on!
Standing.
Baby may be able to stand upright while holding onto a piece of furniture. (And in a matter of months, she may be
letting go!)
Hand skills.
A 10-month-old baby can often pick things up using their thumb and pointer finger and have learned how to point (and
anything and everything exciting) too.
Talking.
About half of 10-month-olds say “mama” or “dada” to refer to their parents. Aw!
Is My 10-Month-Old Healthy?
Here are some frequent health questions parents of 10-month-olds have. Click through for answers and lots of helpful
information.
My
10-month-old has diarrhea
. What should I do?
My
10-month-old is constipated
. What should I do?
My
10-month-old is coughing
. What should I do?
My
10-month-old is vomiting
. What should I do?
My
10-month-old has a fever
. What should I do?
10-Month-Old Food
It’s not just you feeding baby now; he’s probably feeding
himself
a bit too! Your 10-month-old baby may help himself to a bottle or sippy cup or to the cut-up bananas on his high-chair
tray. You never want to leave baby eating unattended though—in case of choking.
How Much Should a 10-Month-Old Eat?
Bottle feeding:
How much formula should a month 10-month-old drink? A six- to eight-ounce bottle or cup, about four or five times per
day is usually about right.
A 10-month-old refusing the bottle is a common complaint; it could be due to teething pain. Or maybe baby’s just
exercising his independence! Rest assured that baby
will
eat if he’s healthy and hungry, but look out for signs of illness, such as fever and fussiness. And if baby
really
won’t eat or drink, it’s time to see the pediatrician.
Breastfeeding:
Feedings are typically about every four to five times per day but each breastfed baby may be slightly different. What’s
important is that baby seems content, your boobs seem to have been emptied (they’re soft) and baby’s gaining weight
healthily.
In a 10-month-old, biting might become a breastfeeding hiccup. If your baby tries to bite you during a feeding, strictly
tell your baby “no” and end the feeding, putting him down. After a few failed tries, he’ll learn that biting doesn’t fly
with you.
Pumping:
A breastfed baby needs about 25 ounces of breast milk per day. So you’ll need to divide that by how many feedings your
baby typically has. So if you feed baby about five times per day, he should get about 5 ounces of breast milk at each
feeding, for example.
What can a 10-month-old eat?
You can continue introducing healthy food options to your baby, sticking to one new food every three or four days. You
might even start feeding him a little bit of what
you’re
having.
Fruits and veggies are fair game—continue to puree them or if they’re soft, cut them into tiny pieces baby can pick up
and feed himself. Try avocado, banana, blueberries, peaches and cooked potatoes, sweet potatoes, carrots and green
beans. Other good finger foods for a 10-month-old baby are pasta pieces, O cereal, melt-in-your mouth rice crackers and
tofu. Baby might be eating meat too. Shreds of chicken and ground bits of turkey can be picked up and eaten. Beef can be
cooked, pureed and served with a spoon.
Food Ideas for 10-Month-Old
Meal ideas can gradually become more varied as baby tries and likes new foods. Remember to offer baby a variety of food
groups, paying attention to giving her a balance of protein, carbs and healthy fats at each meal.
Can my 10-month-old eat eggs?
Many parents of 10-month-olds ask about eggs. The advice used to be to avoid giving babies eggs before their first
birthday, but that recommendation is changing. Egg is a common allergen, and the old advice said egg yolk was okay
around nine months but to wait to introduce the egg white (which is more likely to cause an allergic reaction).
But newer food allergy research suggests that babies
should not
avoid allergenic foods entirely. And in fact, that it might benefit baby to introduce them earlier.
The short answer is: Yes, you can give baby egg yolk at ten months. As for egg whites, talk to baby’s doctor and decide
together. (Baby’s allergy risk may come into play.) And as with introducing any new food, watch your baby for signs of
an allergic reaction in the following days.
10-Month-Old Feeding Schedule
Photo: Megan Rubey
10-Month-Old Baby Sleep
A typical 10-month-old nap schedule consists of about two naps—one in the morning and one in the afternoon. Your baby
may be sleeping as much as 11 or even 12 hours at night, perhaps with
no waking up
. (That’s cause for celebration!)
10-Month-Old Sleep Schedule
Photo: Megan Rubey
My 10-month-old won’t sleep. Help!
Some parents complain that their 10-month-old baby is suddenly not sleeping or their 10-month-old wakes up screaming
when he previously never did. In a 10-month-old, sleep regression can happen. Because baby’s learning new skills, such
as crawling, pulling herself up to stand and cruising, she might decide she wants to practice them…
in the middle of the night
. It’s hard to get back to sleep after all that activity. Other babies simply miss Mom or Dad in the middle of the night
and just want to be close to you.
The good news is, babies tend to grow out of regressions like this within a month or two. Until then, use some of these
moms’
tricks
to try to help baby (and you!) get more restful sleep. If your 10-month-old won’t sleep through the night, it’s not
necessarily a problem. But some parents are eager to get themselves a good night’s sleep! If you’re interested in
helping your 10-month-old sleep longer stretches, consider sleep-training—
here’s how to do it
.
10-Month-Old Schedule
Your 10-month-old’s day looks a lot different than it did just a few months ago. There’s a lot more moving and grooving!
Looking for things to do with a 10-month-old? Baby might love to play with toys with buttons, lids, switches and knobs.
Get a ball and pass it back and forth with your baby—this simple game is tons of fun for a 10-month-old! So is
patty-cake; he can probably now join in and patty-cake along.
10-Month-Old Schedule Example
A 10-month-old’s daily schedule might look something like this.
Photo: Megan Rubey
10 Month Old Baby Checklist/Tips
Schedule baby’s
12-month checkup
, if you haven’t already.
Sing simple songs to baby like “Itsy-Bitsy Spider.”
Start planning baby’s birthday party if you’re having one. You’ll want to send out invitations about a month in advance.
Take baby’s 10-month baby photo.11 Month Old Baby
Your baby is 11 months old!
What a personality! Your 11-month-old baby’s character may have started to shine through, and now you’re probably seeing
whether she tends to be more laid-back or whether she’s got some spunk. But don’t assume too much! She’s still
developing and figuring out her likes and dislikes. Baby’s learning,observing (and testing!) and figuring out how to
react to things she encounters. And really, baby’s probably displayed a variety of temperaments—such as shyness and
independence—at different points in her development, not to mention on any given day! Give it some time, and baby’s
personality will continue to evolve.
11-Month-Old Development
Your 11-month-old isn’t getting longer anymore—she’s getting taller! As she stands herself up more and more, she’s
beginning to see the world from an upright position, which makes it way more interesting. And that will make baby even
more excited about exploring it that way. Look out world!
11-Month-Old Baby Weight & Height
How much should an 11-month-old weigh and measure?
Average weight for an 11-month-old baby is 19.2 pounds for girls and 20.8 pounds for boys. Average height is 28.7 inches
for girls and 29.3 inches for boys.
Baby is probably growing about a half inch taller each month and putting on three to five ounces per week, but as baby
becomes more mobile and active, her rate of growth might begin to slow down a bit. So you might find your 11-month-old
baby is not gaining weight as quickly as she used to.
If you’re concerned about baby’s rate of growth, have a chat with the pediatrician. Babies may experience growth spurts
at different times compared to other babies, so everything might be just fine. But it’s always a good idea to get baby
checked out just in case.
Five Senses
Baby can see pretty clearly, making out faces from about 20 feet away.
She can easily watch objects as they move.
Baby’s listening closely—and now it’s integrated with her sense of sight. In other words, baby’s looking and listening
at the same time, learning much more about what’s going on around her.
Baby’s fingers seem to be drawn to trouble—she wants to poke, prod and rip things! Here’s where some baby-safe finger
paints or old magazines can come in handy.
11-Month-Old Milestones
What Should My 11-Month-Old Be Doing?
Baby is likely standing, cruising, scooting and is exploring everything!
Crawling.
Baby is probably getting better and better at crawling. That’ll be her main mode of transportation—until the light bulb
moment (maybe a few months from now) when she realizes that walking is faster!
Cruising.
Baby may begin to hold on to furniture as she walks herself around the room. Some especially daring babies may also let
go. (Read: Standing!)
Standing.
Baby may stand without support or while holding your hands. Next step: Walking.
Pointing.
She can recognize objects and point to them when you ask her where they are.
Is My 11-Month-Old Healthy?
Here are some frequent health questions parents of 11-month-olds have. Click through for answers and lots of helpful
information.
My
11-month-old has diarrhea
. What should I do?
My
11-month-old is constipated
. What should I do?
My
11-month-old is coughing
. What should I do?
My
11-month-old is vomiting
. What should I do?
My
11-month-old has a fever
. What should I do?
11-Month-Old Food
Baby gets breast milk or formula three to five times a day, and has three meals of solid foods, plus one to three
snacks.
What Can Baby Eat This Month?
Baby is still on formula or breast milk during month 11 and is really a full-fledged solids eater.
How much formula for an 11-month-old is typical?
About six to eight ounces about three to five times per day should do the trick.
How often should my baby breastfeed?
Still, baby is nursing about three to five times per day at 11 months old. Some moms think they need to stop nursing
around 1-year but know that benefits of breast milk extend into the toddler years. Many women continue breastfeeding
their babies past the first birthday and are glad they did it. It’s a personal decision, so do what feels right for you
and baby.
Can I give my 11-month-old whole milk?
Doctors recommend waiting it out another month. Once your baby is officially one, his digestive system should be mature
enough to handle regular cow’s milk. Stick to whole milk from age one to age two, mixing it into baby’s regular formula
or breast milk in slowly increasing amounts. This is what a feeding schedule for an 11-month-old baby might look like.
11-Month-Old Feeding Schedule
Photo: Megan Rubey
11-Month-Old Sleep
Your 11-month-old baby still likely sleeps about 13 to 14 hours total per day. About 10 to 11 of those hours are at
night, and he’s probably taking two naps totaling about three hours of daytime sleep.
11-Month-Old Sleep Schedule
Photo: Megan Rubey
Why is my 11-month-old not sleeping like she used to?
For an 11-month-old, sleep regression is not out of the question. Baby is super active now! And she may want to suddenly
be super active at night too. If baby isn’t sick, it probably is just a regression that could last a couple of weeks.
Make every effort to get baby back on track by giving her a soothing bedtime routine and putting baby to bed at her
usual bedtime. Earlier is almost always better!
How do I start sleep-training an 11-month-old?
If your baby is waking at night, and you’re ready to take some steps to get her sleeping longer stretches,
sleep-training may be the answer. Here’s the scoop on
how to sleep-train a baby
.
11-Month-Old Schedule
Your curious and playful 11-month-old baby now has a really active day!
If you’re looking for things to do with an 11-month-old baby, play peekaboo with different variations. For example, put
a small blanket over baby’s head and then take it away; hide behind a door; put a blanket over your head, and let baby
take it off.
Listen to music together and sing! This is a great way to help baby’s language development. Many babies’ schedules look
pretty different, but a typical 11-month-old’s daily routine might go something like this:
Photo: Megan Rubey
11-Month-Old Baby Checklist/Tips
Schedule baby’s
12-month checkup
, if you haven’t already.
Send out invitations to baby’s first birthday party, if you’re having one.
Keep playing and singing songs with baby.
Take baby’s 11-month-old baby photo.12 Month Old Baby
Your baby is 1-year-old!
Happy birthday baby! You’ve now got a 1-year-old on your hands! Baby’s been on an amazing journey in her first year,
hasn’t she? And so have you, watching baby advance from rolling to cruising—maybe even walking unsupported. (If baby’s
not there yet, don’t worry. Many toddlers start walking after their first birthday.) She’s probably pretty social now,
waving “hi” and “bye” and likely using most 1-year-olds’ favorite word, “no,” while shaking her head. Make way for
toddlerhood!
1-Year-Old Development
Your baby is probably still growing about a half inch each month and gaining three to five ounces per week. But look
out: Many babies go through a growth spurt right around 12 months.
1-Year-Old Weight & Height
How much does a 1-year-old weigh and how tall is she? The average weight for a 1-year-old baby is 21.9 pounds for girls
and 21.3 pounds for boys. Average height (formerly known as length) is 29.1 inches for girls and 29.8 inches for boys.
Baby’s probably tripled her birth weight and is about 10 inches longer than she was at birth.
Five Senses
Baby’s hearing is now super accurate, and she listens with closer attention than she used to.
She loves to look and listen at the same time, making reading books really fun and interesting.
Baby loves feeling different textures and cool sensations such as the feeling of water pouring from cup to cup in the
bathtub.
Baby continues to feel everything with her hands and her mouth.
1-Year-Old Milestones
What Should My One-Year-Old Be Doing?
Sitting.
Baby probably sits for long periods of time and can twist and turn to reach different toys.
Standing.
About half of babies can stand for a few moments without support during month 12.
Walking.
About one out of four babies this age are starting to walk. But don’t freak out if yours isn’t. The normal age range of
first steps is 9 months to 17 months, so it’s still pretty early for your toddler (eek!) to be walking.
Talking.
Baby is probably saying "dada,” "mama" and at least one other word. (And yes, if you understand what she means, it
counts as a word!)
Understanding.
Baby also understands one-step commands if you use gestures, such as when you ask her to pick up the ball or look at the
dog.
Is My 12-Month-Old Baby Healthy?
Here are some frequent health questions parents of 12-month-olds have. Click through for answers and lots of helpful
information.
My
12-month-old baby has diarrhea
. What should I do?
My
12-month-old baby is constipated
. What should I do?
My
12-month-old baby is coughing
. What should I do?
My
12-month-old baby is vomiting
. What should I do?
My
12-month-old baby has a fever
. What should I do?
1-Year-Old Food
In addition to formula or breast milk (and even a little whole milk), your baby is eating three meals and one to three
snacks per day.
How much food for a 12-month-old baby?
One-year-olds are notorious for not eating a lot, so don’t worry too much if baby’s appetite starts to lessen over the
next couple months. You can expect your child to eat about a quarter of a cup of each food group at every meal. Don’t
worry too much about having her join the clean plate club. One-year-olds are very good at judging when they’re hungry
and when they’re full, so if she stops, she’s had plenty to eat.
What Can Baby Eat?
Your 12-month-old baby can eat most things you do! So long as it’s nutritious and soft enough for her to gum if she
doesn’t have many teeth yet.
If you’re looking for finger foods for 1-year-old baby,
head here for some tasty and healthy recipes
.
Can my 12-month-old baby drink regular milk now?
Yes, she can! Baby’s digestive system should be ready for cow’s milk, so you’re welcome to introduce it to her slowly.
How much whole milk for a 12-month-old baby?
Start with just a little bit—maybe add a few ounces to her formula or breast milk at each feeding, or offer a small cup
at snack time. It might take a little while for her to get used to the taste.
1-Year-Old Feeding Schedule
Photo: Megan Rubey
1-Year-Old Sleep
How much sleep should a 1-year-old get? One-year-olds still likely sleep about 13 to 14 hours per day. Roughly 10 to 11
of those hours are probably at night. A typical nap schedule for a 1-year-old baby consists of two naps that total three
hours of daytime sleep. (Sometime before her second birthday, she’ll probably switch to just one nap per day, in the
afternoon.)
1-Year-Old Sleep Schedule
Photo: Megan Rubey
How to put a 1-year-old to sleep
Put your baby to sleep while she’s still awake! Having a baby who falls asleep on her own means she’s more likely to get
easily back into a snooze state if she wakes up during the night. The most important thing is that you have a soothing
bedtime routine that your toddler knows signals sleep-time. We personally like to give a bath (some nights), read a
book, sing a song, hug and then turn out the lights.
When to introduce a toddler bed
Know that you shouldn’t be in a rush to get baby into a toddler bed. The crib is still safe for baby as long as he’s not
climbing out of it, and many parents keep their toddler in a crib until they begin potty training, around age 2 or 3.
How to sleep-train a one-year-old baby
We commonly hear, “My one-year-old won’t sleep through the night!” Whether your 1-year-old has sleep regression or he’s
never slept the whole night through, we get your desperation. If your one-year-old is not sleeping, you might turn to
sleep-training in order to teach her to sleep better.
Here are some basics on the practice
. But know that sleep-training a 1-year-old baby is going to be a little different than it is for a younger baby—
here are some toddler sleep-training tips
.
What to do if your 1-year-old is sleeping a lot
Define a lot. Your growing toddler still needs much more sleep than you do—about 14 hours per 24 hour period. If it’s a
lot more than that and you’re concerned baby might be sick, talk to the pediatrician for advice.
1-Year-Old Schedule
Looking for things to do with a 1-year-old baby? Go out and play! Toddlers love textures, so have baby go barefoot and
crawl or walk around the yard to really feel the grass beneath her hands, knees and feet.
1-Year-Old Schedule Example
A 12-month-old baby’s daily schedule might look something like this.
Photo: Megan Rubey
1-Year-Old Baby Checklist/Tips
Take baby to her
12-month checkup
.
1-year-old vaccine schedule: At 1-year-old, vaccines recommended by the American Academy of Pediatrics are the MMR
(measles, mumps and rubella) and chickenpox (varicella) immunizations. Baby’s doctor may also recommend the Hepatitis A
vaccine and/or the fourth dose of the Hib and PCV13 vaccines, but those could also be given at the 15-month checkup.
Schedule baby’s
15-month checkup
.
To help one-year old baby’s language development, read to her every day. If you speak a second language, use it around
baby.
Check to make sure baby is in the correct car seat for his height, weight and age. In fact,
Consumer Reports
recommends a
convertible car seat
for a 12-month old baby. So it might be time to retire baby’s infant seat, in order to keep her safer.
Start weaning baby off the bottle (slowly switch to sippy cups) and the pacifier if she takes one.13-Month-Old
Your toddler is 13 months old!
Toddlerhood has arrived. That means mealtime messes, new words (like “NO!”), squirmy diaper changes and mood swings. (In
case you haven’t heard, some parents are surprised because one can feel like a preview of the
“terrible twos.”
)
Don't get us wrong. There are plenty of positives to this new phase too: spontaneous affection (unsolicited wet, sloppy
kisses) and a peek into his or her developing personality (who can resist a dancing toddler?), just to name a couple.
In this article:

13-Month-Old Development

13-Month-Old Sleep

13-Month-Old Food

Activities for a 13-Month-Old

13-Month-Old Baby Checklist /Tips
13-Month-Old Development
As your 13-month-old becomes more and more upwardly mobile, you might notice rolls of pudge start disappearing from arms
and legs and weight gain slowing down.
13-Month-Old Weight & Height
How much should a 13-month-old weigh and measure? According to the World Health Organization, the average weight of a 13
month old is 20.2 pounds for girls and 21.8 pounds for boys. Average height is 29.6 inches for girls and 30.3 inches for
boys. Of course, every kid is different and—just like in babyhood—it isn't the number on the scale itself that's
important. It's that your child is gaining weight and growing in a healthy way that’s reflected in a positive curve on
the growth chart.
This month, your child should have gained about half a pound and about half an inch or so. If you have any concerns your
child isn't growing healthily, talk to your pediatrician. Otherwise, weight and height will get checked at the 15-month
checkup.
13-Month-Old Milestones
Here are some milestones your 13-month-old may have hit or may be working on:
•
13-Month-Old Talking.

Should my 13-month-old be talking?
Yes, but it may not sound like real words just yet. Your toddler may be using the same babble sound —"ba" for
bottle,"da" for "dada" or even "cak" for jacket for example—and that counts as talking. Some 13-month-olds are still
using gibberish that has tones and a cadence like real conversation but doesn't consists of any actual words. That's
normal too.
A common question parents have is,
How many words should a 13-month-old say?
Most 12- to 13-month-olds can say one word and about half of them say two words.
Your 13-month-old is getting better at communicating to you without having to cry. She's probably not doing that
all
the time but many times, she finds ways to get her point across—for example, by pointing to what she wants on the
kitchen counter.
•
13-Month-Old Walking.
Most toddlers can pull themselves up to a standing position and can cruise around the room while using furniture. About
half can take a few wobbly steps on their own. (Wow!)
Worried because your toddler isn’t walking yet? Be careful what you wish for! Even some perfectly healthy tots don’t
walk until they’re 18 months old, so try to enjoy his or her pre-walking days while they last. (You’ll be chasing baby
around before you know it.)
13-Month-Old Behavior
Does it seem like your sweet little baby has morphed into a difficult creature? Well, that's one of the challenges of
toddlerhood. Difficult behavior can be frustrating for you but can be resolved with a little know-how and tons of
patience. These articles can help you deal with a few common 13-month-old behaviors:
•
Tatrums
•
Hitting
•
Biting
•
Separation Anxiety
13-Month-Old Health
Now that you've passed the one-year mark, you're probably feeling much more confident in your ability to care for a sick
child than you were a year ago. But there are always new questions that crop up. Some common health questions parents of
13-month-olds have are:
• My 13-month-old has
diarrhea
. What should I do?
• My 13-month-old has
constipation
. What should I do?
• My 13-month-old is
throwing up
. What should I do?
• My 13-month-old has a
fever
. What should I do?
13-Month-Old Sleep
You've probably found that your 13-month-old is pretty settled into a daily sleep routine—though little things, like
illness, teething, and streaks of independence can sometimes through the routine for a loop.
How Much Sleep Does a 13-Month-Old Need?
It's recommended that one- to two-year-olds get 11 to 14 hours of sleep total in a 24-hour day. Some 13-month-olds are
still taking two naps per day but others are starting to transition to just one nap (usually by 18 months), so how those
hours are broken up depends on your own kid's schedule.
Here's one example of how it might go:
13-Month-Old Sleep Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
Refusal to sleep
Your 13-month-old won’t sleep? We're not surprised. At this age, it's normal for a child to use every trick in the book
to try to delay going to bed—getting
another
cup of water, needing to find a special toy
right now
, reading what seems like 20 books… and on and on.
Stick to the same calming bedtime routine—and start it at the same time each night. Make your child's room comfy. Try to
cut down on trips to your child's room and/or don't let your child come into your bed in the middle of the night. (If
she does, bring her back to her own bed immediately.) All these strategies can establish nighttime rules and promotes
can a good night's sleep for a toddler (and for you.)
13-Month-Old Sleep Regression
If your child used to sleep well at night and then suddenly won't, it could be due to at least one of several things.
12- to 14-month olds may begin experiencing active dreams that can suddenly awaken them. Teething pains could also be
waking your child in the middle of the night. Follow the bedtime routine and be patient, and your kid will likely soon
get back to sleeping through the night.
Transitioning To A Toddler Bed
If your 13-month-old is still sleeping in a crib, there's absolutely no rush to move her out of it until nighttime potty
training—unless, of course, it poses a safety issue. Once a child can climb out of the crib and there's a risk of
falling, then you'll want to make the switch sooner rather than later. You’ll have the added challenge of teaching your
little one to actually stay in his toddler bed at night, but you’ll get there.
13-Month-Old Food
At 13 months, your former baby is slowly transitioning away from baby food, the bottle and/or formula. But remember,
she's still learning all these new things, so it's okay to make the switch slowly.
How Much Should A 13-Month-Old Eat?
Doctors say most toddlers need approximately 1,000 calories per day—give or take—or about 40 calories for each inch of
their height. But trying to count your kid's calories isn’t practical. You can't expect a 13-month-old to eat the same
sized portions from one meal to the next—or the same amount of food from one day to the next. Heck, don't expect your
kid to even
touch
the same food he devoured yesterday!
Offer your one-year-old portions about one-fourth the size of an adult portion. Then, let
her
choose how much she eats based on her appetite. 13-month-olds are notoriously finicky and some days may seem
ravenous—and other days seem to live off a handful of cheddar bunny crackers and nothing else.
What To Feed A 13-Month-Old
You should offer your 13-month-old three meals and two snacks per day. Give him a daily variety of foods in all food
groups: vegetables, fruits, grains, protein and dairy.
Food Ideas For 13-Month-Old
Toddlers tend to get too little calcium, iron and fiber. In addition to dairy products, your child can get calcium from
foods such as green leafy veggies, broccoli and tofu. Tofu can provide iron too, as can fortified cereal, dried peaches
and lean ground beef. For fiber, you may offer pinto or refried beans, prunes, bananas and whole wheat pasta.
It's okay to continue to feed your 13-month-old baby food, if he still likes it—and perhaps, if that's the only way
he'll eat veggies at this stage.
How Much Milk Should A 13-Month-Old Drink?
How much milk your child should drink depends on how much other calcium is in your child's diet.
Most 13-month-olds should be drinking whole milk, since one-year-olds need the fat for brain development. At age two,
you should switch her to 1 percent or skim milk. Doctors recommend kids ages one to three get 700 mg of calcium per day.
So if your kid doesn't get calcium from any other source, he'll need about three 8-ounce cups of milk per day. If he
gets calcium from other sources, you can adjust his milk intake accordingly.
If you're breastfeeding, you don't have to offer your child cow's milk but you certainly can. Just keep an eye on your
tot's growth to make sure your toddler is gaining a healthy amount of weight at each checkup. Some moms choose to wean
their toddler off breastfeeding after their first birthday but there's no reason not to continue if you two want to keep
it up!
Juice is okay occasionally but it should be unsweetened 100 percent fruit juice and should be limited to 4 to 6 ounces
or less per day.
You should continue to wean your toddler off the bottle if you haven't already. At this point, your child should be
using a regular cup or a cup with a straw as much as possible. Some doctors don't love the sippy cup because its use
(with milk or juice) could lead to tooth decay and it could inhibit speech development in some children.
13-Month-Old Feeding Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
*A toddler's serving size is about ¼ of an adult's
Source:

HealthyChildren.org
13-month-old Won’t Eat
Now that your child's growth is slowing down and he's getting more independent, you might find him refusing to eat more
often than he used to. You can't and really shouldn't force your child to eat—but you should keep offering a variety of
healthy foods and as many unprocessed foods as possible. Here's more
great advice on how to deal with picky eating
.
If your child won't eat anything
at all
, it could be a sign of illness, and you should call the pediatrician immediately.
Activities for a 13-Month-Old
Many 13-month-olds are starting to get interested in playing games and mimicking their parents as they do household
chores. You might even have a budding artist on your hands!
Things To Do With A 13-Month-Old
Fun activities, games and toys for 13-month-old are:
•
Peek-a-boo:
Some 13-month-olds can start to play along
•
Beginner's coloring:
Give your child some chunky crayons and encourage her to scribble on paper
•
Pass the ball:
Roll your 13-month-old a ball and see if she'll roll it back!
•
Do chores together:
She may see you sweep the floor or wipe the countertop and want to help.
Let her join in!
13-Month-Old Baby Checklist/Tips
• Buy your tot
good shoes
. The fit, support and lack of blisters are worth the money, especially for your new walker. Trust us. • Set aside at
least 5 to 10 minutes a day to read books together with your 13-month-old. This is a calming bedtime routine and a great
way to learn and bond.
• Do another safety check of your home. Make sure it's been
baby-proofed
for a walker!
• Schedule baby’s
15-month checkup
if you haven't already.14-Month-Old
Your toddler is 14 months old!
Your child may be practically running or may still be summoning the courage for those first steps. Expect bumps, splats
and somersaults, since depth perception and coordination take a while to develop. When your toddler tumbles, your
reaction can have a big effect on hers. If you ignore minor falls—or even clap and say “nice one!”— you may avoid the
tears and drama. You might also notice bowlegs, flat feet or her toes pointing out when she walks. These are common at
14 months and should disappear later.
In this article:

14-Month-Old Development

14-Month-Old Sleep

14-Month-Old Food

Activities for 14-Month-Old

14-Month-Old Checklist/Tips
14-Month-Old Development
Your 14-month child is gaining pounds, inches and a variety of new skills.
14-Month-Old Weight & Height
How much should a 14-month-old weigh and measure? According to the World Health Organization, average weight for a
14-month-old is 20.7 pounds for girls and 22.3 pounds for boys. Average height is 30.1 inches for girls and 30.7 inches
for boys.
It's not the weight and height that matters though—it's that your child's rate of growth is healthy. Your child is
probably gaining about a half pound and growing about a half inch per month. Next month, at the 15-month checkup, your
pediatrician will check how he's been growing to make sure it's on track.
14-Month-Old Milestones
Your toddler's working on a ton of skills. These are a few that are probably on your mind.
•
Walking.
Most 14-month-olds can stand by themselves and take a few steps without help. About half are good walkers. A few
ambitious tots are running and maybe even climbing steps at this age.
•
Speech.
Your 14-month-old is probably saying mama and dada and may even say up to six or so words.
•
Teething.
Some 14-month olds may be erupting their first molars. Many kids find relief from teething pain with cold teething
rings. It's okay to give your child
acetaminophen
or ibuprofen to make her more comfortable when teething is at its worst.
•
Potty Training.
Wondering whether your 14-month-old is ready to
potty train
? The answer is probably no. While there is no general consensus among doctors on when is the ideal time, they all
agree: your toddler will usually give you signs of when he or she is ready. But it's never too early to start talking
about the potty with your child and reading
books
about using it.
14-Month-Old Behavior
•
Tantrums.
If your sweet baby is prone to a meltdown from time to time, chalk it up to normal toddlerhood. A kid's most prone to
throwing tantrums between 17 and 24 months, so you've got a good year (at least) left in dealing with these fits. In the
meantime, make "stay calm" your mantra.
•
Separation Anxiety.
Your little one is becoming more independent every day but she may, at times, also be more sensitive to being away from
you. If drop-off at day care or Grandma's house is tearful, stay consistent in your routine, assure your toddler you'll
be back, and give her lots of attention after you return. Believe us: The tears stop soon after you leave.
•
Signs of Autism.
A common concern for parents of toddlers is whether or not their child could have an autism spectrum disorder (ASD),
since
autism
can become apparent during the toddler and preschool years. Kids with autism may have atypical communication, social
skills and behaviors; they may not hit milestones at the same age as other children, or they may lose some skills they
previously had. Your child's pediatrician will likely ask you a series of questions to evaluate for signs of autism at
her 18-month checkup. But if you have concerns now, it's worth an earlier discussion.
•
Biting.
Got a biter on your hands? Don’t worry: Biting is actually a really common phase for toddlers and won’t last too long.
Since they can’t communicate emotions, particularly frustration, they bite. You’ll find that most other parents are
understanding—but do make it clear to your little one that biting isn't acceptable.
14-Month-Old Health
When your 14-month-old is sick, you're going to want to consult your child's pediatrician to find the best treatment for
him. A few common health questions parents have at this age are:
• My 14-month-old has a
fever
. What should I do?
• My 14-month-old has
diarrhea
. What should I do?
• My 14-month-old is
throwing up
. What should I do?
14-Month-Old Sleep
At 14 months, the name of the sleep game is routine. You'll want to make sure your child has a pretty set schedule so
she knows when she's expected to settle in for the night. Of course, there are always going to be days where things
don't go exactly as planned.
How Much Sleep Does A 14-Month-Old Need?
Most one- to two-year-olds get 11 to 14 hours of sleep per day total, between nighttime sleep and one or two daytime
naps.
Here's one example of how it might look:
14-Month-Old Sleep Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
14-Month-Old Sleep Regression
Vivid dreams, teething pains and separation anxiety are just a few reasons a 14-month-old can start to wake at
night—even if she was previously a good sleeper. If you're desperate to get back to the usual sleep routine, it's
important to know the root of the problem, so you can help your child get through this sleep disruption. Stick with the
usual bedtime routine and set limits that will help your child get back on track.
14-Month-Old Won’t Sleep
You've probably become (very groggily) aware that you can't force kids to sleep. If your 14-month-old refuses to sleep
at bedtime or at nighttime, the only thing you can do is provide her the tools she needs to start snoozing — and then
let her decide to actually do it. This means giving plenty of opportunities throughout the day for active play, setting
a bedtime routine that's predictable and calming, and shutting down screens at least an hour before bedtime.
14-Month-Old Food
Your 14-month-old is probably eating more new foods—but may be rejecting some favorites she previously loved. Don't let
that keep you from offering them though; she's really still figuring out which foods she loves and which ones she
doesn’t care for.
How Much Should My 14-Month-Old Be Eating?
A 14-month-old should be eating about three meals and two snacks per day. Give her a daily variety of foods in all food
groups—vegetables, fruits, grains, protein and dairy.
Doctors say most toddlers need approximately 1,000 calories per day—give or take—or about 40 calories for each inch of
their height. But definitely don't worry about keeping track! Offer your one-year-old portions about one-fourth the size
of an adult portion. Then, let
her
choose how much she eats based on her appetite.
What To Feed A 14-Month-Old
Keep giving your 14-month-old whole milk (unless the doctor has recommended otherwise) or breast milk. A 14-month-old
should get 700 mg of calcium per day. So if your kid doesn't get calcium from any other source, she'll need to drink
about three 8-ounce cups of milk each day.
As far as food choices go, variety is key. Just like you, your toddler should be eating a variety of foods from all the
different food groups. At this age, you don't need to restrict fats—because a 14-month-old needs them for brain
development—but you should definitely avoid giving her overly salted, sweetened and buttered foods. Stick with natural,
unprocessed foods as much as possible.
14-Month-Old Baby Food Ideas
Most 14-month-olds are able to pick up foods and feed themselves. But they're still at risk for choking, so continue to
mash her foods or keep pieces very small and easy to chew. Foods like peanuts, whole raw carrots, and hard candies are
still too hard for a 14-month-old. Grapes, cherry tomatoes, and hot dogs should be cut into very small pieces to prevent
choking.
14-Month-Old Feeding Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
*A toddler's serving size is about ¼ of an adult's
Source:

HealthyChildren.org
14-Month-Old Won’t Eat
You probably already know that toddlers are notorious for being
picky eaters
. But that doesn't help when meals go untouched, and you start to worry about your child's health.
Here’s the thing: every kid is going to eat something
eventually
. Experts say to think of your toddler's nutrition in terms of weeks, not days. So if your child seems to have eaten a
variety of foods over the course of the week—and there are no problems with her weight gain or growth—then everything's
probably A-OK.
Activities for 14-Month-Old
Now that your 14-month-old is much more upright and mobile than she used to be, she's probably really into playing while
sitting, standing and walking. Just check out her new moves!
Things To Do With A 14-Month-Old
Fun activities, games and toys for a 14-month-old are:
•Patty-cake.
Most 14-months old will imitate you when you clap your hands.
•Push toy.
Mini lawn mowers, shopping carts and strollers are great toys for this age, since new walkers love to show off their
skills while pushing along.
•Stacking blocks.
Your child can start to learn to build a tower with two blocks; eventually, she'll want to add even more.
•Shape sorting.
Matching shapes to the holes in a shape-sorting toy is a fun skill for a 14-month-old to begin to master.
14-Month-Old Checklist/Tips
• Keep giving your 14-month-old a child-size cup, spoon and/or fork to practice using them during mealtime. It might be
messy now, but give him time to get the hang of them.
• Your mini-me may be digging into—and emptying—everything in reach (boxes, bags, trash cans, your purse). Keep anything
messy or dangerous out of reach.
• Make clean-up fun by putting on some music and singing together while you put toys away together.15-Month-Old
Your toddler is 15 months old!
Your little one is now a fabulous sidekick. You can start to ask for your 15-month-old's help carrying (small) things,
throwing away trash and picking out books. This is great for a toddler's self-esteem and teaches him to pitch in around
the house.
In this article:

15-Month-Old Development

15-Month-Old Sleep

15-Month-Old Food

Activities for a 15-Month-Old

15-Month-Old Baby Checklist /Tips
15-Month-Old Development
Your 15-month-old continues to grow and develop in a variety of ways, and you'll see the doctor this month to give an
update on his progress.
15-Month-Old Weight & Height
How much should a 15-month-old weigh and measure? According to the World Health Organization, the median weight for a
15-month-old is 21.2 pounds for girls and 22.7 pounds for boys. Median height is 30.5 inches for girls and 31.2 inches
for boys.
Your child's weight, height and head circumference will be measured at his 15-month checkup, and the doctor will check
to see that his rate of growth is on track for a healthy 15-month-old. He's probably gained a pound or two since his
12-month visit.
15-Month-Old Milestones
At the checkup, the doctor will likely ask about certain milestones your child is hitting, to get a feel for how she's
developing. At this age, there's a wide range of what's considered "normal"—if you have any concerns about your child's
development, definitely talk them over with your pediatrician.
•
Walking.
Your child is probably taking at least a few steps on her own. About half of 15-month-olds can walk well. A few are even
running or starting to learn to walk backwards!
•
Speech.
Most 15-month-olds say at least one word. Half can say at least two words. And some tots will have now ventured past
“dada” and “mama” to form a growing vocabulary that includes words like “dog,” “juice” and— if you’re still
breastfeeding—“boobies.”
•
Teething.
First molars may be starting to erupt. For some kids, cutting teeth can be painful and bothersome. For others, you just
happen to notice one day a new pearly white poking through the gums—no biggie.
•
Identification.
Your child is starting to understand what everyday objects are used for—a broom is for sweeping and a wooden spoon is
for stirring, for example. Some 15-month-olds can identify and point to a few body parts when you ask them to show you.
15-Month-Old Behavior
While it's awesome to have an active and (mostly) happy toddler, they have their, er… moments. A few challenging
behaviors at 15 months are:
•
Tantums
•
Separation Anxiety
•
Throwing Things
How To Discipline A 15-Month-Old
It might seem like your child is "misbehaving" at times, but at 15 months, he probably doesn't realize he's acting up.
He simply
wants
to see what it's like to color on the wall or to explore the couch by climbing it. Throwing things or hitting gets him
attention and, sometimes, exactly what he wants. To start to teach your child good behavior, you'll want to set up some
boundaries and consequences.
Here are a few tips that may work with you in disciplining your 15-month-old:
•
Hide things that are off-limits.
You won't have to keep telling your kid "no" when she touches the remote, a magic marker or Daddy's watch if they're
away from her line of sight and reach.
•
Set clear rules and consequences. And stick to them!
If your kid sees that pulling the dog's tail gets him a time-out every time, he'll— eventually—stop it.
•
Distract and redirect.
Dwelling on negative behavior won't really teach any lessons at this age. If your child acts out, remove her from the
situation and distract her with a positive activity.
•
Stay calm.
It's natural to want to freak out when your child does, but try to demonstrate calm behavior. Over time, he'll start to
learn to not act out from you.
15-Month-Old Health
Sometimes it seems as if toddlers are sick all. The. Time. Especially if they go to day care. Parents of 15-month-olds
tend to have these common health questions.
• My 15-month-old has a
fever
. What should I do?
• My 15-month-old has excessive drooling.
Could he be teething?
• My 15-month-old is
throwing up
. What should I do?
• My 15-month-old has a
cough
. What should I do?
• My 15-month-old has a
cold
. What should I do?
• What should I do about
diarrhea
in my 15-month-old?
15-Month-Old Sleep
You've probably found that your 15-month-old is pretty settled into a daily sleep routine—though teething, occasional
illness and her desire to stay up and play all day can sometimes throw the routine for a loop.
How Much Sleep Does a 15-Month-Old Need?
One- to 2-year-olds should get 11 to 14 hours of sleep total in a 24-hour day. Wondering when your kid’s going to become
a one-nap-a-day tot? Her sleep schedule will usually start to shift from two naps on its own right about now. But you
can nudge it along by waiting until after lunch to put her down (even if that means making lunchtime a little earlier
for a while).
Here's one example of how it might go:
15-Month-Old Sleep Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
15-Month-Old Sleep Regression
It's common for a 15-month-old to begin to have nightmares—and at this age, he can't really tell the difference between
dreams and reality. That can lead to some pretty serious night waking. If your 15-month old
was
sleeping just fine and is suddenly having nightmares, you'll probably have to do some middle-of-the-night reassuring.
Remind your toddler that his dreams aren't real but know that it will take some time before he can truly understand the
difference.
15-Month-Old Won’t Sleep
In addition to nightmares, there are other reasons for a toddler to refuse to sleep. Sometimes they just don't want to
miss a thing! Try to wind things down before bedtime—turn off the TV, music and devices; give him a soothing bath; read
calming bedtime stories. And keep things consistent. If you normally read two books at bedtime, stick to two. If one
night you read five, your kid might try to convince you to do that
every
night, even when it pushes bedtime later and later.
Food For A 15-Month-Old
You may have noticed your 15-month-old doesn't seem always seem to be interested in eating a big meal, or is becoming
pickier about what kinds of foods she eats. That's totally normal at this age.
How Much Should A 15-Month-Old Eat?
Continue to give your 15-month-old three meals and two snacks per day. Give her a daily variety of foods in all food
groups—vegetables, fruits, grains, protein and dairy.
Doctors say most toddlers need approximately 1,000 calories per day—give or take—or about 40 calories for each inch of
their height. But definitely don't worry about keeping track! Offer your one-year-old portions about one-fourth the size
of an adult portion. Then, let
her
choose how much she eats based on her appetite.
Make mealtime an event when you can—having regular meals together as a family can help encourage your child to try
different foods, to socialize, to learn table manners and to practice healthy eating habits.
Keep giving your 15-month-old whole milk (unless the doctor has recommended otherwise) or breast milk. A 15-month-old
should get 700 mg of calcium per day. So if your kid doesn't get calcium from any other source, he'll need to drink
about three 8-ounce cups of milk per day.
If you're breastfeeding, you and your child can keep it up as long as both of you enjoy the benefits. If you're
interested in weaning a 15-month-old from breastfeeding, remember to do it slowly. Eliminate one daily feeding for at
least three to seven days before dropping the next. If you go too fast, you could risk
clogged milk ducts
and infection. Remember to give your child plenty of attention during weaning and find ways to distract him during his
usual breastfeeding times.
Looking for 15-month baby food ideas? Check out these ideas and recipes:
•
24 health snack ideas for kids
•
Healthy foods your toddler will love
•
15 creative meal ideas for toddlers
•
Top 10 recipes for 1-year-olds
15-Month-Old Feeding Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
** A toddler's serving size is about ¼ of an adult's
Source:
HealthyChildren.org
15-Month-Old Won’t Eat
If your 15-month-old won't eat and everything else seems normal, it's likely just a case of picky eating. Rest assured
that your pediatrician is keeping tabs on your kid's growth to make sure it's on track. Continue to offer your child a
variety of healthy foods for each meal and limit unhealthy treats. But don't start a power struggle over food. Here's
more
great advice on how to deal with picky eating
.
If your child won't eat anything
at all
, it could be a sign of illness, and you should call the pediatrician to discuss.
Activities For A 15-Month-Old
Your upwardly mobile child is pretty fun to play with these days, huh? There are plenty of things you can do together
that make for quality bonding time and help with his development.
What To Do With A 15-Month-Old
Fun activities, games and toys for a 15-month-old are:
•
Play ball.
This is a perfect age for rolling and bouncing a ball together.
•
Color with crayons.
Half of all 15-month-olds can scribble with a crayon. Give yours a few colors to help him channel his inner Picasso. He
may even start to draw distinct lines.
•
Story time.
Your toddler is probably learning to turn the pages in her favorite books and point to the pictures when you ask her to
identify the objects in them.
15-Month-Old Checklist/Tips
• Take your toddler to his
15-month checkup
.
• Your child may be due for a booster shot for the DTaP or another one of the immunizations he received as an infant.
• Schedule your toddler's
18-month checkup
.
• Create a safe (
childproofed
) playzone and let your toddler explore tactile toys at his own.16-Month-Old
Your toddler is 16 months old!
Your 16-month-old is probably in a state of constant motion, playing, kicking, walking, climbing—maybe even running. If
you have a climber, it’s time to triple-check the
childproofing
throughout your home. It’s also a good idea to keep a rug or carpet beneath the crib in case of jailbreaks.
In this article:

16-Month-Old Development

16-Month-Old Sleep

16-Month-Old Food

Activities for a 16-Month-Old

16-Month-Old Baby Checklist /Tips
16-Month-Old Development
While your 16-month-old is keeping you on his toes, he continues to grow and make developmental leaps and bounds.
16-Month-Old Weight & Height
How much should a 16-month-old weigh and measure? According to the World Health organization, the mediam weight of a
16-month-old is 21.6 pounds for girls and 23.2 pounds for boys. The median height is 30.9 inches for girls and 31.6
inches for boys.
16-Month-Old Milestones
•
Walking.
Most 16-month-olds are walking well, which is the lead-up to next steps: climbing, running, walking backward and dancing
to music.
•
Speech.
About half of toddlers at this age are saying at least three words, and some especially chatty tots are uttering 15
words or more.
•
Teething.
As early as 16 months, baby's cuspids or canines—the third bottom tooth from the front—may begin to erupt.
•
Potty Training.
You can continue to "talk up" the potty and what people do in there—but no pressure to potty train just yet. Your tot
may start to notice it or even ask to sit on a potty chair. But it's okay if she's not really interested just yet. One
medical study suggests beginning between
27 and 32 months
is ideal.
16-Month-Old Behavior
Your 16-month-old may be exhibiting some challenging and boundary-pushing behaviors. Tap below for advice on dealing
with:
•
Tantrums
•
Separation anxiety
•
Time-outs
•
Weird behavior
16-Month-Old Health
Toddlers are constantly exposed to germs—and it doesn't help that their food and drink preference can lead to some
digestive problems. Common health questions at 16 months are:
• My 16-month old has a
fever
. What should I do?
• My 16-month-old has
diarrhea
. What should I do? Could it be
"toddler's diarrhea"
?
• My 16-month-old has
constipation
. What should I do?
16-Month-Old Sleep
How Much Sleep Does A 16-Month-Old Need?
One- to 2-year-olds need 11 to 14 hours of sleep total per day. Your 16-month-old may be starting to transition to just
one nap per day, so your daily schedule might be doing a little bit of rearranging. Usually, it's the morning nap that
goes, and either the afternoon nap becomes longer, or bedtime is a bit earlier. Luckily, this is usually a pretty
natural transition.
Here's one example of how it might go:
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
16-Month-Old Sleep Regression
So, you 16-month-old won't sleep and you're dying to make bedtime less of a struggle? For the thirty minutes before
bedtime, follow the exact same rituals in the exact same order—and give him 20 minutes notice before he heads off to
bed. This parent trick for changing baby’s bedtime has been shown to work: use the time he usually falls asleep
naturally as your sleep routine starting point, then adjust it gradually, in 15-minute increments.
16-Month-Old Food
How Much Should My 16-Month-Old Eat and Drink?
Your 16-month-old should be eating three meals and two snacks per day. Doctors say most toddlers need approximately
1,000 calories per day—give or take—or about 40 calories for each inch of their height. If your child devours her food
one day and barely touches it the next, that's totally normal. In fact, toddlers are excellent judges of just how much
they should be eating. And remember: a serving of food for them is only about one-fourth the size of an adult portion.
If baby isn’t already eating with a spoon and fork sometimes, encourage her to practice.
What To Feed A 16-Month-Old
About three 8-ounce cups of whole milk per day is recommended for a 16-month-old, if your toddler doesn't get calcium
from other foods. Aim for about 700 mg of calcium total per day. Give her a regular cup or a straw cup as much as
possible. She should completely be off the bottle, and some doctors warn that sippy cup use (with milk or juice) could
lead to tooth decay and it could inhibit speech development in some children.
Toddlers tend to get too little calcium, iron and fiber. In addition to dairy products, your child can get calcium from
foods such as green leafy veggies, broccoli and tofu. Tofu can provide iron too, as can fortified cereal, dried peaches
and lean ground beef. For fiber, you may offer pinto or refried beans, prunes, bananas and whole wheat pasta.
More and more, you're probably transitioning your child away from purees and other baby foods. Aim to feed the entire
family well-rounded, unprocessed meals, and just mash and/or finely chop pieces for your toddler. Of course, a little
bit of puree is still okay, if that's the only way he'll eat veggies.
Food ideas for a 16-month-old:
•
24 health snack ideas for kids
•
Healthy foods your toddler will love
•
15 creative meal ideas for toddlers
•
Top 10 recipes for 1-year-olds
Feeding Schedule for A 16-Month-Old Baby
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
*A toddler's serving size is about ¼ of an adult's
Source:
HealthyChildren.org
16-Month-Old Won’t Eat
If your 16-month-old isn’t eating, it's likely just a case of picky eating. Continue to offer your child a variety of
healthy foods for each meal and limit unhealthy treats. But don't start a power struggle over food. Here's more great
advice on
how to deal with picky eating
.
If your child won't eat anything
at all
, it could be a sign of illness, and you should call the pediatrician to discuss.
Activities For A 16-Month-Old
What To Do With a 16-Month-Old
Fun activities, games and toys for a 16-month-old are:
•
Blocks.
About half of 16-month-olds can make a tower by stacking three blocks.
•
Coloring.
She should also be able to scribble, so break out the sidewalk chalk and crayons (and hide all pens and permanent
markers!).
•
Pretend objects.
Play kitchens, toy brooms and pretend phones allow a child to imitate what she's seen her parents doing.
16-Month-Old Checklist/Tips
•
Teething pain
? Let baby snack on frozen peas—they feel good on her gums and are surprisingly yummy, not to mention healthy.
• When you're changing your child's clothes, talk her through what's happening. Soon, she'll be able to start undressing
herself and after that, she'll learn to put on clothes all by herself.
• Have a dance party! Now that your child is fully mobile, he'll want to try out some new dance moves.17-Month-Old
Your toddler is 17 months old!
Your 17-month-old has tons of new tricks, like opening every cabinet door in the house, chucking their toys across the
room, stripping off his diaper and maybe even shrieking like a banshee. You might also find that they're either
terrified of dogs and strangers or show absolutely no fear at all. Offer support and supervision when needed. A
preference for Mommy above all others is common at this age. Tell your partner not to take it personally; they’re likely
to get a turn as no. 1 later.
In this article:

17-Month-Old Development

17-Month-Old Sleep

17-Month-Old Food

Activities for a 17-Month-Old

17-Month-Old Baby Checklist /Tips
17-Month-Old Development
Not all your 17-month-old's tricks are mischievous. Your little one keeps growing and reaching new milestones.
17-Month-Old Weight & Height
How much should a 17-month-old weigh and measure? According to the World Health Organization, the median weight of a
17-month-old is 22.1 pounds for girls and 23.7 pounds for boys. The median height of a 17-month-old is 31.4 inches for
girls and 32.0 inches for boys.
Next month, at the 18-month checkup, the pediatrician will check how your child has been growing to make sure they're on
track.
17-Month-Old Milestones
Once your tot hits toddlerhood, they practically become a new person. Look at all the amazing things they can do now!
•
Walking.
Your mobile 17-month-old may soon start to run and even learn to walk up steps.
•
Speech.
Most 17-month-olds are saying at least two to three words, and very few are saying 50 or more words. If your toddler
doesn't have a few words in their vocabulary, there’s not necessarily a cause for concern — so don’t panic. Does your
kid point? Grunt? Make it clear that they understand what you’re saying? Those are all signs that your child is getting
closer. (If your kid isn't doing these things, have their hearing checked.)
•
Teething.
A baby's upper cuspids tend to poke through around 16 to 22 months and the lower cuspids erupt around 17 to 23 months,
so you could be in the middle of another round of teething.
•
Potty training.
Your neighbor may be bragging about potty training her 1 ½-year old, but that doesn't mean you need to keep up with the
Joneses. If your child is
showing signs of readiness
, you can buy a potty seat and encourage them to sit on it. Read
books about potty training
, and point out older kids your child knows who use the potty. Eventually, they'll probably show you they want to really
ditch the diapers. But for now, it's usually just about getting your kiddo into the routine of sitting on the seat and
getting excited for making this upcoming milestone.
17-Month-Old Behavior
Your precocious 17-month-old may be exhibiting some challenging and pretty odd behaviors. Tap below for advice on
dealing with:
•
Tantrums
•
Separation Anxiety
•
Nose-Picking, Repetition, Whining and Other Annoying Habits
17-Month-Old Health
Common health questions parents have at 17 months are:
• My 17-month-old has a
fever
. What should I do?
• My 17-month-old has
diarrhea
. What should I do?
• My 17-month-old has
constipation
. What should I do?
• My 17-month-old is
throwing up
. What should I do?
17-Month-Old Sleep
How Much Sleep Does a 17-Month-Old Need?
One- to 2-year-olds need about 11 to 14 hours of sleep total each day. At this age, your child is probably is getting
those hours through nighttime sleep plus one afternoon nap—though some 17-month-olds do still hold onto their morning
nap.
Here's one example of how it might go:
17-Month-Old Sleep Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
17-Month-Old Sleep Regression
Between teething, fears, nightmares and separation anxiety, there are plenty of reasons a 17-month-old might suddenly
stop sleeping as well as they used to. To get back to the usual sleep routine, it's important to know the root of the
problem, so you can help your child get through. Stick with the usual bedtime routine and set limits that will help your
child get back on track.
17-Month-Old Won’t Sleep
17-month-olds tend to give every excuse under the sun not to go to bed. But don't give into their mind games! Wind
things down before bedtime—turn off the TV, music and devices; give her a soothing bath; read calming
bedtime stories
. And keep the routine consistent: one book, two kisses, one refill of water, then lights out (for example). Don't let
your kid stall or delay.
17-Month-Old Food
How Much Should My 17-Month-Old Eat And Drink?
Keep giving your 17-month-old three balanced meals and two healthy snacks per day. Toddlers' portion sizes are about
one-quarter of an adult's. For example, a serving of ground meat is only two tablespoons, a serving of pasta is four
tablespoons, and a serving of fruit is ⅛ cup, and for veggies it's about 1 tablespoon.
What To Feed My 17-Month-Old
About three 8-ounce cups of whole milk per day is recommended for a 17-month-old if they aren't getting calcium from
other foods. Aim for about 700 mg of calcium total per day.
Many 17-month-olds continue to breastfeed—and you may continue for as long as you both like. If you're considering
weaning your 17-month-old, remember to go slowly. Drop one daily nursing session for at least three to seven days before
dropping the next. If you go too fast, you could risk a
clogged milk duct
or
mastitis
. Your child may feel slightly vulnerable during the transition, so remember to give them plenty of attention during
weaning and find ways to distract them during their usual breastfeeding times. Many moms like to go by the "don't offer;
don't refuse" method, which is very gradual and easy on both mom and baby.
Looking for food ideas for a 17-month-old? Check out these ideas and recipes:
24 health snack ideas for kids

Healthy foods your toddler will love

15 creative meal ideas for toddlers

Top 10 recipes for 1-year-olds

17-Month-Old Feeding Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
*A toddler's serving size is about ¼ of an adult's
Source:
HealthyChildren.org
17-Month-Old Not Eating
If your 17-month-old won't eat and everything else seems normal, it's likely just a case of picky eating. Rest assured
that your pediatrician is keeping tabs on your kid's growth to make sure it's on track. Continue to offer your child a
variety of healthy foods for each meal and limit unhealthy treats. But never try forcing or bribing your child to eat.
Here's more
great advice on how to deal with picky eating
.
If your child won't eat anything
at all
, it could be a sign of illness, and you may decide to call the pediatrician to discuss.
Activities For A 17-Month-Old
What To Do With a 17-Month-Old
Fun activities, games and toys for a 17-month-old are:
•
Riding toys.
Most 17-month-olds will pretend to drive a car or ride a horse.
•
Play ball.
Your tot is developing the coordination to throw a ball underhand and may soon be able to kick it too.
•
Sorting.
You may start to teach your 17-month-old how to sort toys by color or shape. Maybe one day, they'll help you sort the
laundry!
17-Month-Old Toddler Checklist/Tips
• Your 17-month-old still isn't big enough to be left alone—not even for a second. If you'd got to run to the bathroom
or get dinner out of the oven, it's a good idea to have a playard where they can sit safely for a minute or two until
you return.
• It's normal for a 17-month-old to have a favorite blankie or soft toy that gives them comfort. If you can, buy a
duplicate—just in case the original ever gets lost or damaged.
• Find baby playing with his poop? More than once? Keep hands out of diapers with snug diaper covers or one-piece
outfits.
• Take some time for self-care. Dealing with screaming, toy throwing and poop-playing isn't easy, and you deserve a
break every now and again.18-Month-Old
Your toddler is 18 months old!
Kids this age are total attention hogs, so don’t be shocked if your toddler turns up the volume every time you begin an
adult conversation. They’re also into exercising their independence—though it may not seem like it when they're clinging
to your leg at day care drop-off. Your little independent kiddo is more likely to express themself through words like
“mine!” and “now!” and by refusing to be strapped down in any manner. (Hello car seat battles!) Let your toddler buckle
in a stuffed animal friend before climbing in the car seat—it might make them feel better about buckling up too.
In this article:

18-Month-Old Development

18-Month-Old Sleep

18-Month-Old Food

Activities for a 18-Month-Old

18-Month-Old Baby Checklist /Tips
18-Month-Old Development
Your growing 18-month-old is probably full of energy, and using it to work on a ton of physical skills.
18-Month-Old Weight & Height
How much should an 18-month-old weigh and measure? According to the World Health Organization, average weight of an
18-month-old is 23.4 pounds for girls and 24.1 pounds for boys. Average height of an 18-month-old is 31.8 inches for
girls and 32.4 inches for boys.
18-Month-Old Milestones
Parents tend to wonder,
What should my 18-month-old be doing?
Here are some milestones your 18-month-old may have hit or may be working on:
•
Walking.
Most 18-month-olds aren't just walking—they're running. Soon they may begin to jump. But they'll still probably ask to
be carried when you're in crowds or taking a longer jaunt.
•
Speech.
Most 18-month-olds can say about 10 words, with half being able to say 20 or more. Soon, your child might start saying
two-word phrases. Pointing to an item they want will soon turn into asking for the thing by name.
•
Teething.
A toddler's upper cuspids tend to break through between 16 to 22 months, so brace yourself for another round of
teething.
•
Potty Training.
A few toddlers at this age might show signs of readiness to start potty training. If your child tells you they have to
go, they want their dirty or wet diaper changed, they're interested in the potty, they can pull their pants up and down
and/or they stay dry for at least two hours in a row—these can signal readiness to try potty training. But don't rush
it; it's much more common for kids to be ready to ditch the diapers between ages 2 and 3. It simply won't work if you
start before your child is mature enough.
18-Month-Old Behavior
Your independence-seeking 18-month-old may be exhibiting some challenging and pretty odd behaviors. Tap below for advice
on dealing with:
•
Tantrums.
Even though your kid's language is developing by leaps and bounds, they still can't communicate everything they want to
say, and that can lead to some meltdowns. Keep stressful situations, such as a trip to the supermarket, short—and make
sure they're well-rested and fed beforehand.
•
Separation Anxiety.
We’ve all done it: the sneak-away-without-saying-goodbye-once-the-sitter-arrives tactic. But in order to avoid having
your child think you could disappear at any time, always acknowledge your departure. Other effective strategies? Set her
up with an activity as you’re leaving—and keep goodbyes firm, but lighthearted.
•
ADHD.
So your 18-month-old is impulsive, hyperactive and has trouble paying attention? Parents might begin to wonder if their
child could be showing signs of ADHD (attention deficit hyperactivity disorder) but the fact is, it's too early to tell.
Most kids this age exhibit these behaviors. It’s only if they don't grow out of them that it may indicate something more
serious, like ADHD. Of course, bring up any concerns with your doctor, but know that a true ADHD evaluation is still at
least a couple years away.
•
Autism.
At the 18-month checkup, your child's pediatrician will likely ask you a series of questions about your child's behavior
to look for signs of autism. Signs may include unusual movements (such as flapping arms), not making eye contact and
interacting atypically with others.
How to Discipline an 18-month-old
Want to get your toddler to behave? Remember that toddlers are simple creatures. Positive behavior should be rewarded;
negative behavior shouldn't. Set limits and stick to them. And remember that your child doesn't fully understand how to
"be good" just yet. Be patient and find ways to teach them how.
18-Month-Old Health
Eighteen-month-olds seem to have mild illness after mild illness. Some common health questions parents have at this age
include:
• My 18-month-old has
diarrhea
. What should I do?
• My 18-month-old is
constipated
. What should I do?
• My 18-month-old has a
fever
. What should I do?
• What should I do about my 18-month-old's
cough
?
• My 18-month-old baby is
throwing up
. What should I do?
• What should I do about
croup
in an 18-month-old?
18-Month-Old Sleep
Getting a good night's sleep is important for your toddler's growth and brain development.
How Much Sleep Does an 18-Month-Old Need?
Most 18-month-olds need around 11 to 12 hours of nighttime sleep, plus a nap of about 1.5 to 3 hours, for a total of
about 13 to 14 hours of sleep per day. Every kid is different, but your child's schedule may look something like this:
18-Month-Old Sleep Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
18-Month-Old Sleep Training
At 18 months, doctors recommend kids fall asleep in their bed on their own, without special comfort measures, like
rocking from mom and dad or a special song playing on the tablet. That's because if your child wakes in the middle of
the night, they'll need to know how to put themself back to sleep without the extra help.
Not quite there yet? It's not too late at 18 months—especially if your child is still sleeping in a crib. But know that
he might be extra-sensitive to it now that he's gained some independence and has a better understanding of time away
from you than he did as a young baby. Go slowly setting up a routine where your toddler consistently goes to bed while
sleepy, but still awake. If he's used to being with you at bedtime, gradually create some distance each night, until you
completely remove yourself from his room.
18-Month-Old Sleep Regression
Regression can happen when a formerly good sleeper suddenly begins waking more, throwing parents for a loop. A bout of
teething or illness could be the cause, or maybe a trip or holiday where their sleep routine changed. To get back to the
usual snoozing routine, it's important to know the root of the problem, so you can find the right solution to help your
child get through it. Stick with the usual bedtime routine and set limits that will help your child get back on track.
18-Month-Old Won’t Sleep
Some nights it seems like you just can't get the kid to sleep. But the truth is, kids need sleep and they
will
eventually sleep if given the proper cues. Wind things down before bedtime—turn off the TV, music and devices; give them
a soothing bath; read calming bedtime stories. And keep the routine consistent: one book, two kisses, one refill of
water, then lights out, for example. Don't let your kid stall or delay.
18-Month-Old Climbing Out of Crib
Climbing is fun! Can you blame your 18-month-old for wanting to climb out of the crib? Some savvy parents catch their
toddlers pulling a jailbreak and effectively scare them into never trying it again; others simply can't stop them. Once
it becomes clear your child isn't staying put, it's really more likely they'll get hurt falling while climbing than they
would if they rolled off a low bed. Then it’s time to convert the crib, or bring in a toddler bed or big-kid bed with
rails. Some parents choose to put the crib mattress on the floor to prevent falls.
18-Month-Old Night Terrors
A night terror is defined as a crying or screaming episode where the child never really wakes, so is unresponsive. Don't
try to wake your child during a night terror; just do your best to calm them back to sleep. And be sure their sleeping
space is safe to avoid injury if they flail or walk around.
The good news is these seemingly wild sleep disruptions are only upsetting for you. Kids don't even remember them! And
kids grow out of having them around age 9. There's no known cause of night terrors, but stress, changes in routine and
overtiredness can contribute to them. So try to stick to a calming bedtime routine, and put your child to bed early, so
he can get a full night's rest.
18-Month-Old Food
When it comes to eating and drinking, this age is all about transitioning: Your child probably isn't eating much "baby
food" anymore, and drinks whole milk instead of breast milk or formula. Most 18-month-olds can drink from a regular cup,
and about half can drink from a straw cup.
How Much Should My 18-Month-Old Eat and Drink?
One- to 2-year-olds should be eating much like you do: three meals per day, plus two snacks.
Aim to give your child about three 8-ounce cups of whole milk per day if they don't get calcium from other foods. But
don't force your kid to drink it if they're refusing.
If you're weaning an 18-month-old from breastfeeding, remember to go slow. Drop one daily nursing session for at least
three to seven days before dropping the next. If you go too fast, you could risk plugged milk ducts and infection. Plus,
it's a transition that could have an emotional effect on your child, so they may need a little extra comfort while
weaning.
What Should My 18-Month-Old Be Eating?
Continue to offer your child a variety of foods at each meal and during snack time. Most toddlers should eat about ¾ to
1 cup of fruits and veggies, ¼ cup grains and three tablespoons of protein per day.
Looking for some tasty and nutritious meal inspiration? Check out these food ideas for an 18-month-old:
•
24 Healthy Snacks for Kids
•
22 Tasty, Easy Lunch Ideas
•
Healthy Foods Your Toddler Will Love
•
15 Creative Meal Ideas for Toddlers
18-Month-Old Feeding Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
*A toddler's serving size is about ¼ of an adult's
Source:
HealthyChildren.org
18-Month-Old Won’t Eat
Toddlerhood is known for picky eating, so try not to worry too much if your child is turning down nutritious foods and
eating what seems like half a bite for dinner. They're not growing as quickly as they did in their first year, and let's
face it, saying “no” to eating is part of exercising their newfound independence. The best you can do is to keep
offering nutritious food options, choosing and preparing food together, and modeling healthy eating behaviors for your
child.
You can bring up any worries about growth or weight gain with the pediatrician at the 18-month checkup.
Should an 18-Month-Old Take Vitamins?
If you're concerned your tot isn't getting enough nutrition in their diet, ask the pediatrician about supplementing with
vitamins. Some toddlers take a multivitamin and/or an iron supplement. Fiber gummies are commonly given to prevent
constipation, but they're rarely needed: fruits and veggies can usually do the trick to keep an 18-month-old's digestive
system on track.
Activities for an 18-Month-Old
Eighteen-month-olds are very fun to play with. Singing, reading books and having a dance party together helps your child
learn and is great quality bonding time for you both.
Things to Do With an 18-Month-Old
Fun activities, games and toys for an 18-month-old include:
•
Singing “Itsy Bitsy Spider.”
18-month-olds tend to love finger play with fun songs and rhymes.
•
Reading board books.
Your increasingly independent child will probably start to look at and page through books on their own.
•
Playing music.
Time for a toddler dance party! Eventually, your little one may start to sing along.
•
Playing catch.
Your child may soon be able to learn to throw a ball overhand.
•
Blowing bubbles.
Head outside for a little fresh air and bubbles—they're a no-fail way to make a toddler smile.
•
Playing hide-and-seek with a toy.
Your child is now able to clearly remember an object, even though they can't see it.
18-Month-Old Baby Checklist/Tips
• Take your toddler to his
18-month checkup
.
• Schedule your toddler's
2-year (24-month) checkup
.
• Your child may need a final dose of the HepB, DTaP or IPV vaccinations if they didn't already receive them.
• Keep up the tooth brushing. Your tot might start to want to do this on their own. Encourage the independence but make
sure you're helping, so you can be certain teeth are thoroughly cleaned.
• Have cleanup time together. Your child will begin to learn where items belong and can soon put toys away
themself.19-Month-Old
Your toddler is 19 months old!
At this age, it might be tempting to start letting your little one get screen time—because they want to do exactly what
they see mom and dad doing. Just because you can choose between Mickey,
Paw Patrol
and 10,000 other toddler shows doesn’t mean you should let your child tune in 24/7. In fact—brace yourself—doctors say
children 18 to 24 months should get less than an hour of screen time a day. That hour should ideally be on an
education-based program, and you should talk about it with your child. The reason is development: It’s too easy for a
toddler to zone out in the presence of TV instead of being stimulated by new experiences, and at this age, it's
difficult for them to understand what's happening on the screen and how that relates to the real world.
In this article:

19-Month-Old Development

19-Month-Old Sleep

19-Month-Old Food

Activities for a 19-Month-Old

19-Month-Old Baby Checklist /Tips
19-Month-Old Development
You're probably amazed at how fast your child is learning and mastering skills. And you're seeing their personality in
all the new feats they're performing. Is your child daring or careful? It's getting more obvious as their personality
shines through.
19-Month-Old Weight & Height
Average 19-month-old baby weight is 23.9 pounds for a girl and 24.6 pounds for a boy, according to the World Health
Organization. How tall should a 19-month-old be? Average height is 32.2 inches for a girl and 32.8 inches for a boy.
19-Month-Old Milestones
Parents ask,
What should my 19-month-old be doing?
Here are some milestones your 19-month-old may have hit or may be working on:
•
Walking.
Your toddler can probably run, climb and bend over to pick up a toy from a standing position.
•
Speech.
Your little chatterbox might be able to say 10 to 20 words. If they can't, it may not be cause for concern, but it's
worth bringing up to the pediatrician. One common cause for a speech delay is trouble hearing.
•
Teething.
Watch out for teething discomfort, as the upper cuspids and lower second molars tend to break through around this time.
•
Potty Training.
Keep talking up the potty and read a few board books (see our favorite ones
here
) about potty training to psych up your 19-month-old for this upcoming milestone.
19-Month-Old Behavior
Your 19-month-old may be exhibiting some challenging and encouraging behaviors. Tap below for advice on dealing with:
•
Tantrums.
Feel like you're already in the terrible twos even though your child isn't two yet? Totally normal. Nineteen-month-olds
are still learning to communicate and regulate their emotions. These skills will take some time to develop. Give your
child TLC when they're upset, and try to help them get their point across when they're frustrated.
•
Separation Anxiety.
At this age, your kid might become more aware of being away from you and may make a scene—especially if they're hungry,
tired or sick. Though it's tempting to linger at day care drop-off, it's best to make goodbyes quick and stick with a
routine. Reassure your child you'll be back and be specific about when.
•
Manners.
If you lead by example, your child may pick up basic manners. This generally comes in the form of words like “peas,”
“tankoo” and “scoosme.”
•
Social Skills.
Sharing and playing cooperatively with others may still be a challenge, but you can help by praising positive behavior.
19-Month-Old Health
A trip to the pediatrician is common for a 19-month-old. Here are some health questions parents have at this age:
• My 19-month-old has
diarrhea
. What should I do?
• What should I do about
constipation
in my 19-month-old?
• My 19-month-old has a
fever
. What should I do?
• My 19-month-old is
coughing
. What should I do?
• My 19-month-old baby is
vomiting
. What should I do?
19-Month-Old Sleep
Sleep routine is key for a 19-month-old. Getting plenty of sleep is important to your child's development and mood.
Having a set routine will help your child learn how to wind down at bedtime and, hopefully, prevent bedtime battles.
How Much Sleep Does a 19-Month-Old Need?
Most 19-month-olds need around 11 to 12 hours of nighttime sleep, plus a nap of about 1.5 to 3 hours, for a total of 13
to 14 hours of sleep per day.
Every kid is different, but your child's schedule may look something like this:
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
19-Month-Old Not Sleeping at Night
There are two common sleep troubles parents can have with 19-month-olds: One is that they don't seem to want to go to
bed at bedtime. This is because everything Mom and Dad are doing seems much more fun than sleeping. But your tot does
need to snooze (and you need the quiet time too), so make sure to stick to the same calming bedtime routine—and start it
at the same time each night.
The other common predicament is that they're waking up during the night, either calling for you or coming into your
bedroom. To prevent this, it's important your child learns to fall asleep on their own, without special soothers or a
parent to cuddle with. That way, when she wakes in the middle of the night, she'll know how to put herself back to sleep
without needing your help.
To help teach this skill, try to cut down on trips to your child's room and/or don't let your child come into your bed
in the middle of the night. (If they do, bring them back to their own bed immediately.) All these strategies can
establish nighttime rules and promote a good night’s sleep for a toddler (and for you too).
Night Terrors in 19-Month-Olds
A 19-month-old waking up screaming at night might be having a night terror. A night terror is defined as a crying or
screaming episode where the child never really wakes, so is unresponsive. Don't try to wake your child during a night
terror, just do your best to calm them back to sleep. And be sure their sleeping space is safe to avoid injury if they
flail or walk around. The good news is these seemingly wild sleep disruptions are only upsetting for you. Kids don't
even remember them! And they usually grow out of having them by age 9.
There's no known cause of night terrors, but stress, changes in routine and overtiredness can contribute to them. So try
to stick to a calming bedtime routine, and put your child to bed early enough so he can get a full night's rest.
19-Month-Old Food
Your 19-month-old is getting more independent with eating—and possibly with refusing food too.
How Much Should My 19-Month-Old Eat and Drink?
One- to-2-year-olds should be eating much like you do: three meals per day, plus two snacks.
About three 8-ounce cups of whole milk per day is recommended for a 19-month-old, if they don't get calcium from other
foods. Aim for about 700 mg of calcium total per day. If you're weaning a 19-month-old from breastfeeding, remember to
go slow. Drop one daily nursing session for at least three to seven days before dropping the next. If you go too fast,
you could risk plugged milk ducts and infection. Plus, it's a transition that could have an emotional impact on your
child, so he may need a little extra comfort while weaning.
What to Feed My 19-Month-Old
Continue to offer your child a variety of foods at each meal and during snack time. Most toddlers should eat about ¾ to
1 cup of fruits and veggies, ¼ cup grains and three tablespoons of protein per day.
Looking for some tasty and nutritious meal inspiration? Check out these food ideas for a 19-month-old:
•
24 Healthy Snacks for Kids
•
22 Tasty, Easy Lunch Ideas
•
15 Creative Meal Ideas for Toddlers
•
Toddler-Friendly Cookbooks
19-Month-Old Feeding Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
Source:
HealthyChildren.org
19-Month-Old Won’t Eat
Toddlerhood is known for picky eating, so try not to worry too much if your child has been turning down nutritious foods
and eating what seems like half a bite for dinner. They're not growing as quickly as they did in their first year, and
let's face it, saying “no” to eating is part of exercising their newfound independence. The best you can do is to keep
offering nutritious food options, choosing and preparing food together, and modeling healthy eating behaviors for your
child. Pressuring them to eat their broccoli simply won't work.
Activities for 19-Month-Old
As your child learns and develops new skills, incorporate them into the playtime you have together.
Things to Do With a 19-Month-Old
Fun activities, games and toys for a 19-month-old include:
•
Playing soccer.
Your tot is developing her kicking skills.
•
Going to the park.
They'll love practicing climbing skills on young child-friendly equipment.
•
Caring for a baby doll.
19-month-olds start to imitate actions they see their parents do, like holding and feeding a baby.
•
Playing with puppets.
The imaginative play is a learning experience for your child.
19-Month-Old Baby Checklist/Tips
• Encourage your child to undress themself. This is a good skill to develop at this age, and you'll see the benefits
once you have one less task you need to help with.
• Bring your own books and playthings to the doctor's office or restaurant to keep your child occupied while you wait.
These places often have crayons or toys, but you'll want to have as much backup as possible.
• Air travel? Assess your kid before accepting the offer to board early. Some toddlers do need the extra time to get
settled, but others do better with as little time as possible in a confined plane.
• Don't give a toddler who's already emotional a long lecture about what they've done wrong. Tell them the rules, let
the outburst subside, and then move on to what's next.20-Month-Old
Your toddler is 20 months old!
Your little rebel may be resisting feeding, changing, getting in the car seat, washing hands…and just about anything
else you want them to do. Toddlers this age like to feel like they’re in control, so offer lots of opportunities for
your kiddo to “help” or make their own choices. Let your child feed themself, for example (even if it’s messy), and if
they says their done after two bites, so be it. And give your kid a chance to feel as if they're making their own
decisions. For example, “Do you want to bring your teddy or your truck for the ride?” as you get ready for a car ride,
instead of “Will you get in your car seat, please?” or “Get in the car seat now.”
In this article:

20-Month-Old Development

20-Month-Old Sleep

20-Month-Old Food

Activities for a 20-Month-Old

20-Month-Old Baby Checklist /Tips
20-Month-Old Development
Twenty-month-olds tend to have two sides to their personalities: the fun-loving, energetic side and the side that's a
bit of a challenge.
20-Month-Old Weight & Height
20-month-old weight is, on average, 24.4 pounds for a girl and 25 pounds for a boy, according to the World Health
Organization. Wondering how tall your 20-month-old should be? Average height is 32.6 inches for a girl and 33.1 inches
for a boy.
20-Month-Old Milestones
What should your 20-month-old be doing? Here are some milestones your 20-month-old may have hit or may be working on:
•
Walking.
Your toddler's probably working on learning to walk up steps; next will come walking down them. Some 20-month-olds can
stand on one foot while holding on to the wall or a chair.
•
Speech.
Your child may be saying up to 50 words and will soon start asking "what" and "what's that" to just about everything.
•
Teething.
20 months is about the time a child's lower second molars pop through, so don't be surprised if there are a few nights
with disrupted sleep.
•
Potty Training.
A few 20-month-olds show signs of potty training readiness. Now's a good time to buy a
training potty seat
and/or start reading potty training books (
these
are some of our favorites) together, if you haven't already. But beware of putting pressure on your kid to potty train
too soon. Most kids aren't really ready to start until about 27 to 32 months.
20-Month-Old Behavior
Your now almost-2-year-old is ever-changing, but here’s advice on how to deal with some potentially challenging
behaviors:
•
Tantrums.
Even though your kid's language is developing by leaps and bounds, they still can't communicate everything they want to
say, and that can lead to some meltdowns.
•
Separation Anxiety.
At this age, your kid might become more aware of being away from you and may make a scene—especially if their hungry,
tired or sick. Though it's tempting to linger at day care drop-off, it's best to make goodbyes quick and to stick with a
routine. Reassure your child you'll be back and be specific about when.
•
Pushing, hitting or biting.
Chalk it up to experimentation, but 20-month-olds tend to have their moments of behaving badly. Avoid overreacting or
using physical punishment—"biting" your kid to show them how much it hurts doesn't stop them from doing it. Stay calm
and keep telling your child hurting others is never okay.
20-Month-Old Health
Twenty-month-olds seem to have mild illness after mild illness. Some common health questions parents have at this age
include:
• My 20-month-old has
diarrhea
. What should I do?
• What should I do about
constipation
in my 20-month-old?
• My 20-month-old has a
temperature
that's high. What should I do if a fever develops?
20-Month-Old Sleep
Most parents transition toddlers from crib to bed between the ages of one and a half and three years old. Not quite
there yet? First, lower the crib mattress as far as it will go and see if that will keep them secure. Ready to take the
plunge? Let your tot help you put their big-boy bed together—it'll help them feel more ownership.
How Much Sleep Does a 20-Month-Old Need?
Most 20-month-olds need around 11 to 12 hours of nighttime sleep, plus a nap of about 1.5 to 3 hours, for a total of
about 13 to 14 hours of sleep per day. Every kid is different, but your child's schedule may look something like this:
20-Month-Old Sleep Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
20-Month-Old Sleep Regression
Regression can happen when a formerly good sleeper suddenly begins waking more, throwing her parents for a loop. A bout
of teething or illness could be the cause, or maybe a trip or holiday where her sleep routine changed. To get back to
the usual snoozing routine, it's important to know the root of the problem, so you can find the right solution to help
your child get through it. Stick with the usual bedtime routine and set limits that will help your child get back on
track.
20-Month-Old Won’t Sleep
Some nights, it seems like bedtime takes way too much convincing. But the truth is, kids need sleep and they
will
eventually sleep. Promise! Wind things down before bedtime—turn off the TV, music and devices; give her a soothing bath;
read calming bedtime stories. And keep the routine consistent: one book, two kisses, one refill of water, then lights
out, for example. Don't let your kid stall or delay.
20-Month-Old Nightmares
When your toddler wakes in the middle of the night, it can be tough to tell whether it's because of a nightmare or
another sleep disturbance. But time could clue you in: Doctors say dreams and nightmares tend to happen in the second
half of the night.
If you suspect your 20-month-old has had a nightmare, comfort her and soothe her back to sleep, reassuring her you'll be
close and that everything is okay. During the day, be careful they're not exposed to any stories or shows that could
scare her and cause future nightmares.
20-Month-Old Waking Up Too Early
We've been there: You know your child needs more morning zzz's but they get up with the sun. Make sure his room is dark
and quiet in the mornings. We highly recommend blackout shades or curtains for their windows.
20-Month-Old Food
Feel like a short-order cook? It’s okay to let your toddler know “this is what’s for dinner” and not offer other
options. They won’t starve by refusing a meal now and then.
How Much Should My 20-Month-Old Eat and Drink?
One- to 2-year-olds should be eating much like you do: Three meals per day, plus two snacks. Give her a variety of foods
in all food groups—vegetables, fruits, grains, protein and dairy—daily.
What to Feed My 20-Month-Old
Toddlers tend to get too little calcium, iron and fiber. In addition to dairy products, your child can get calcium from
foods such as green leafy veggies, broccoli and tofu. Tofu can provide iron too, as can fortified cereal, dried peaches
and lean ground beef. For fiber, you may offer pinto or refried beans, prunes, bananas and whole wheat pasta.
For meal inspiration, check out these food ideas for a 20-month-old:
•
24 Healthy Snacks for Kids
•
22 Tasty, Easy Lunch Ideas
•
15 Creative Meal Ideas for Toddlers
•
Toddler-Friendly Cookbooks
20-Month-Old Feeding Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
Source:
HealthyChildren.org
20-Month-Old Won’t Eat
Now that your child's growth is slowing down and they're getting more independent, you might find them refusing to eat
more often than they used to. You can't and really shouldn't force your child to eat—but you should keep offering a
variety of healthy foods and as many unprocessed foods as possible.
Here's more great advice on how to deal with picky eating
.
If your child won't eat anything at all, it could be a sign of illness, and you should call the pediatrician
immediately.
Activities for a 20-Month-Old
A 20-month-old shows independence through simple chores and activities they see their parents or older siblings do. They
love songs and learning through playtime.
Things to Do With a 20-Month-Old
Fun activities, games and toys for a 20-month-old include:
•
Drawing with crayons.
Together you can work on practicing drawing a straight line.
•
Head, shoulders, knees and toes!
Your 20-month-old may be able to name up to six body parts.
•
Playing with blocks.
Your child is still working on stacking skills and may be able to stack up to six of them.
•
Doing chores together.
Let your 20-month-old set the spoons on the table, wipe up spills and sweep the floor with a mini-broom. At this age,
work feels like play.
20-Month-Old Baby Checklist/Tips
• It's never too early to practice good hygiene. Teach your child to wash and dry their hands and get into the habit of
doing it together.
• Dentists recommend a 20-month-old uses a small dab of fluoride toothpaste to brush their teeth.
• Shampooing can be annoying to toddlers, but the good news is that you don't have to do it every day. Depending on the
child's hair and skin type, washing hair once a week is probably just fine.21-Month-Old
Your toddler is 21 months old!
Playtime is even more entertaining as you start seeing your tot’s personal interests shine through in her toy and game
choices. Little Sophia may like crashing toy trucks, and little Asher may dig your shiny pink heels. Kids at this age
don’t know there are gender-specific toys—they’re just having fun. During playtime or mealtime, be warned that the wee
one may find it “fun” to stick small objects—like raisins or beads—in her nose, ears, or other orifices. So watch
closely.
In this article:

21-Month-Old Development

21-Month-Old Sleep

21-Month-Old Food

Activities for a 21-Month-Old

21-Month-Old Baby Checklist /Tips
21-Month-Old Development
As your 21-month-old continues to grow, he's developing some new tricks to show off.
21-Month-Old Weight & Height
How much should my 21-month-old weigh? Average weight for a 21-month-old is 24.9 pounds for girls and 25.5 pounds for
boys. Average height for a 21-month-old is 32.9 inches for girls and 33.5 inches for boys.
21-Month-Old Milestones
Here are some milestones your 21-month-old may have hit or may be working on:
•
Motor skills.
Most 21-month-olds can run, squat and throw a ball underhand. They can follow two-step directions. For example: Fill up
the truck with blocks, then push it to me.
•
Speech.
Your toddler may know 50 or more words and can put two together to make a phrase.
•
Teething.
Your toddler's lower second molars might be erupting, causing some teething discomfort—some come in earlier.
•
Potty Training.
A few 21-month-olds show signs of potty training readiness. It's okay to get an early start if you truly feel he's
prepared. But beware of putting pressure on your kid to potty train—it's still early. Most kids aren't really ready to
start until about 27 to 32 months.
21-Month-Old Behavior
As your child gets older, here’s advice on how to deal with some potentially challenging behaviors:
•
Tantrums.
Even though your kid's language is developing by leaps and bounds, she still can't communicate everything she wants to
say, and that can lead to some meltdowns.
•
Autism.
At the upcoming 2-year-old checkup, your child's pediatrician will likely ask you a series of questions about his
behavior to look for signs of autism. But if you have any concerns before then, you shouldn't feel shy about bringing
them up to the doctor right away.
•
Seeking approval.
Soon your child will show signs she's aware of your approval…or disapproval. This is an important early step in learning
positive behaviors. When your child behaves positively, tell her how much you like it. The opposite goes when she isn't
behaving well: Tell her you don't like it.
21-Month-Old Health
Health is always a top concern for parents, and this age is no different. Some common health questions parents of
21-month-olds have include:
• My 21-month-old has
diarrhea
. What should I do?
• What's a normal heart rate for a 21-month-old? Answer: between 80 and 130 beats per minute.
• My 21-month-old baby is
vomiting
. What should I do?
• My 21-month-old has a
cough
. What should I do?
• My 21-month-old has a
temperature
. What should I do if a fever develops?
21-Month-Old Sleep
Your toddler needs plenty of sleep for his development—and to keep his mood in check. But there are some sleep questions
and challenges parents of a 21-month-old can encounter.
How Much Sleep Does My 21-Month-Old Need?
Most 21-month-olds need around 11 to 12 hours of nighttime sleep, plus a nap of about 1.5 to 3 hours, for a total of
about 13 to 14 hours of sleep per day.
Every kid is different, but your child's schedule may look something like this:
21-Month-Old Sleep Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
21-Month-Old Sleep Regression
Regression can happen when a formerly good sleeper suddenly begins waking more, throwing her parents for a loop. A bout
of teething or illness could be the cause, or maybe a trip or holiday where her sleep routine changed. To get back to
the usual snoozing routine, it's important to know the root of the problem, so you can help your child get through it.
Stick with the usual bedtime rituals and set limits that will help your child get back on track.
21-Month-Old Fighting Sleep
It's normal for a 21-month-old to resist bedtime. Everything else seems much more fun than sleeping. But your tot does
need to snooze (and you need the quiet time too). Here's another place where adhering to the same calming bedtime
routine—and starting it at the same time each night—can help.
Also, make sure your child gets plenty of active play during the day, and that you power down devices and TV at least 20
minutes before bedtime. And make sure the afternoon nap doesn't run too late in the day.
21-Month-Old Climbing Out of Crib
The first time you find your toddler climbing out of the crib can surprise any parent. Some savvy parents catch their
toddlers pulling a jailbreak and effectively scare them into never trying it again; others simply can't stop them. Once
it becomes clear your child isn't staying put, it's really more likely they'll get hurt falling while climbing than they
would if they rolled off a low bed. Then it’s time to convert the crib, or bring in a toddler bed or big-kid bed with
rails. Some parents even prefer setting the crib mattress on the floor, so the child can't fall far.
21-Month-Old Food
Eating is a really big part of a 21-month-old's life, but you shouldn't make a really big deal about it. In other words,
don't fight your kid about food or lecture him if he doesn't eat his green beans. Just offer him healthy options and let
him choose what he wants. A little praise for making good choices doesn't hurt.
How Much Should My 21-Month-Old Eat and Drink?
One- to 2-year olds should be eating much like you do: Three meals per day, plus two snacks. Give him a variety of foods
in all food groups—vegetables, fruits, grains, protein and dairy—daily.
Most 21-month-olds should be drinking whole milk, since one-year-olds need the fat for brain development. At age two,
you should switch him to 1 percent or skim milk. Doctors recommend kids ages one to three get 700 mg of calcium per day.
So if your kid doesn't get calcium from any other source, he'll need about three 8-ounce cups of milk per day. If he
does consume other forms of calcium, you can adjust his milk intake accordingly.
If you're weaning a 21-month-old from breastfeeding, remember to go slow. Drop one daily nursing session for at least
three to seven days before dropping the next. If you go too fast, you could risk plugged milk ducts and infection. Plus,
it's a transition that could have an emotional impact on your child, so he may need a little extra comfort and
reassurance while weaning.
What to Feed My 21-Month-Old
Continue to offer your child a variety of foods at each meal and during snack time. Most toddlers should eat about ¾ to
1 cup of fruits and veggies, ¼ cup grains and three tablespoons of protein per day.
Looking for some tasty and nutritious meal inspiration? Check out these food ideas for a 21-month-old:
•
24 Healthy Snacks for Kids
•
22 Tasty, Easy Lunch Ideas
•
15 Creative Meal Ideas for Toddlers
•
Toddler-Friendly Cookbooks
21-Month-Old Feeding Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
Source:
HealthyChildren.org
21-Month-Old Refuses to Eat
Try not to worry too much if your child is turning down nutritious foods and eating what seems like half a bite for
dinner. It's normal for 21-month-olds to be picky eaters. They're not growing as quickly as they did in their first
year, and let's face it, saying “no” to eating is part of exercising her newfound independence. The best you can do is
to keep offering nutritious food options, choosing and preparing food together, and modeling healthy eating behaviors
for your child.
Should a 21-Month-Old Take Vitamins?
If you're concerned your tot isn't getting enough nutrition in his diet, ask the pediatrician about supplementing with
vitamins. Some toddlers take a multivitamin and/or an iron supplement. Fiber gummies are commonly given to prevent
constipation, but they're rarely needed: Fruits and veggies can usually do the trick for keeping a 21-month-old’s
digestive system on track.
Activities for a 21-Month-Old
Fun activities, games and toys for a 21-month-old include:
•
Make a cardboard house.
Using a large cardboard box, cut out a “door,” and you’ve got an instant—and cheap—indoor playhouse. If you feel like
getting fancy, decorate the “house” with windows and other details.
•
Put together a puzzle.
Simple puzzles appeal to about half of 21-month-olds.
•
Play tag.
Kids this age love running around and tagging someone "it."
•
Mix things up.
Your child might notice if you call a "dog" a "car," or let you know the book's the wrong way if you hold it upside
down.
21-Month-Old Baby Checklist/Tips
• Keep encouraging your child to learn to dress himself. At this point, he might be able to take off a piece of
clothing. Soon, he'll be able to put one on and may be able to put on shoes too.
• Enroll in a mommy-and-me swim class. Experts used to discourage official swimming lessons for toddlers under the age
of four, since few children under that age have the muscle strength to keep themselves afloat. But these days, experts
encourage informal swimming programs to get toddlers comfortable around water—and to teach them its dangers.
• Don't pressure your child to share if she's just not ready to do it yet. But definitely praise her when she does. Some
parents find using the term "taking turns" works better than overemphasizing "sharing."22-Month-Old
Your toddler is 22 months old!
Your toddler is the center of the universe—her own. Kids this age are rarely great at taking turns and sharing, and they
can seem downright rude. Keep your cool and model good behavior, so she sees what she's
supposed
to be doing. She’ll catch on, oh, in a year or so.
In this article:

22-Month-Old Development

22-Month-Old Sleep

22-Month-Old Food

Activities for a 22-Month-Old

22-Month-Old Baby Checklist/Tips
22-Month-Old Development
As your growing 22-month-old learns new skills, she might get frustrated when she has trouble doing—or isn’t allowed to
do—the thing she wants. But resist the urge to always jump in and help. A little challenge from time to time helps your
child gain more independence.
22-Month-Old Weight & Height
Average weight for a 22-month-old is 25.4 pounds for girls and 25.9 pounds for boys. Average height for a 22-month-old
is 33.4 inches for girls and 33.9 inches for boys.
22-Month-Old Milestones
Here are some milestones your 22-month-old may have hit or may be working on as he nears his second birthday:
•
Motor skills.
Your 22-month-old might be kicking a ball, walking backwards, and perhaps even balancing on one foot while holding onto
a sturdy chair or wall. Soon, she might be able to pedal a tricycle.
•
Speech.
She's probably saying 50 words or as many as 100.
•
Teething.
Your toddler's lower second molars and/or upper second molars might be erupting, causing some teething discomfort.
•
Potty Training.
Some 22-month-olds show signs of potty training readiness. You can start encouraging him to sit on the potty. But beware
of putting pressure on your kid to potty train—it's still early. He’s more likely to be ready to start once he reaches
27 to 32 months.
22-Month-Old Behavior
As your child gets older, here’s advice on how to deal with new behaviors:
•
Tantrums.
Even though your kid's language is developing by leaps and bounds, she still can't communicate everything she wants to
say, and that can lead to some meltdowns.
•
Autism.
At the upcoming two-year checkup, your child's pediatrician will likely ask you a series of questions about your child's
behavior to look for signs of autism. But if you have any concerns about your child's behavior, you shouldn't feel shy
about bringing them up to the doctor before that.
•
Seeking approval.
Soon your child will show signs he's aware of your approval…or disapproval. This is an important early step in learning
positive behaviors.
•
Exploration.
Try not to be alarmed if your toddler starts touching her private parts. This is normal for both boys and girls at this
stage and isn’t cause for concern.
22-Month-Old Health
Common health questions parents of 22-month-old toddlers have include:
• My 22-month-old has
diarrhea
. What should I do?
• My 22-month-old is
constipated
. What should I do?
• My 22-month-old is
throwing up
. What should I do?
• My 22-month-old has a
fever
. What should I do?
22-Month-Old Sleep
Whether your child loves or hates bedtime, you probably have questions about what's typical when it comes to sleep for a
22-month-old, and what to do when there are hiccups in the usual sleep routine.
How Much Sleep Does My 22-Month-Old Need?
Most 22-month-olds need around 11 to 12 hours of nighttime sleep, plus a nap of about 1.5 to 3 hours, for a total of
about 13 to 14 hours of sleep per day.
Every kid is different, but your child's schedule may look something like this:
22-Month-Old Sleep Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
22-Month-Old Sleep Regression
Is your 22-month-old waking up in the middle of the night? Sleep regression can happen because of teething, separation
anxiety or a change in sleep routine. To get back to the usual sleep routine, it's important to know the root of the
problem, so you can help your child get through it. Stick with the usual bedtime routine and set limits (such as no
sleeping in mommy and daddy's room) that will help your child get back on track.
Night Terrors in 22-Month-Olds
A 22-month-old waking up screaming at night might be having a night terror. A night terror is defined as a crying or
screaming episode where the child never really wakes, so is unresponsive. Don't try to wake your child during a night
terror; just do your best to calm him back to restful sleep. And be sure his sleeping space is safe to avoid injury if
he flails or walks around.
The good news is these seemingly wild sleep disruptions are only upsetting for you. Kids don't even remember them! And
they tend to grow out of having them by around age 9.
There's no known cause of night terrors, but stress, changes in routine and overtiredness can all play a role. So try to
stick to a calming bedtime routine, and put your child to bed early enough so he can get a full night's rest.
22-Month-Old Food
The key to feeding a 22-month-old is variety. Even if you know she's only going to eat her rice, it's still important to
serve the chicken and veggies with it.
How Much Should My 22-Month-Old Eat and Drink?
One- to 2-year-olds should be eating much like you do: three meals per day, plus two snacks. Portion size isn't big at
this age: Expect your kid to eat a serving of pasta the size of a Ping-Pong ball, protein as big as four marbles, and
chopped veggies or fruit around the size of four dominoes—these are all considered normal portions for a toddler this
age.
About three 8-ounce cups of whole milk per day is recommended for a 22-month-old, if she doesn't get calcium from other
foods. Aim for about 700 mg of calcium total per day.
If you're weaning your 22-month-old from breastfeeding, remember to go slow. Drop one daily nursing session for at least
three to seven days before dropping the next. If you go too fast, you could risk plugged ducts and infection. Plus, it's
a transition that could have an emotional effect on your child, so she may need a little extra comfort while weaning.
What to Feed My 22-Month-Old
Continue to offer your child a variety of foods at each meal and during snack time. Most toddlers should eat about ¾ to
1 cup of fruits and veggies, ¼ cup grains and three tablespoons of protein per day.
Looking for some tasty and nutritious meal inspiration? Check out these food ideas for a 22-month-old:
•
24 Healthy Snacks for Kids
•
22 Tasty, Easy Lunch Ideas
•
15 Creative Meal Ideas for Toddlers
•
Toddler-Friendly Cookbooks
22-Month-Old Feeding Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
Source:
HealthyChildren.org
22-Month-Old Won’t Eat
Got a picky eater? Most toddlers do get proper nutrition when their parents serve a variety of foods—even if it doesn’t
always seem that way. But, unlike adults who often eat out of habit or boredom, toddlers tend to eat only when they’re
hungry. And remember: New foods are scary to your toddler. So manage your expectations; it may take inspecting new foods
several times before he’ll actually taste them—don’t force it. But continue trying, so he gets used to sampling
different flavors.
Activities for a 22-Month-Old
Playtime helps your 22-month-old make sense of the world and develop her skills.
Things to Do With a 22-Month-Old
Fun activities, games and toys for a 22-month-old include:
•
Pretend play.
Dress-up clothes, vehicles, toy cash registers and play food are all popular toys at this age.
•
Riding toys.
Cars, wagons and pushcarts will keep your on-the-go tot busy.
•
Musical instruments.
Make some noise with kid-friendly xylophones, piano and drums.
•
Books.
These are always a favorite, and you should continue to read to your toddler every day.
22-Month-Old Baby Checklist/Tips
• Let your toddler know that interrupting isn't okay by not responding right away when he does it. Wrap up the
conversation you’re having quickly and then give him your attention when you're done.
• Teach your toddler to sneeze or cough into the crook of her elbow—not in her hands—to avoid the spread of germs.
• Explore new foods with your toddler. If he doesn’t like something, keep it offering it along with foods he does
like.23-Month-Old
Your toddler is 23 months old!
Toddlers are notoriously resistant to change. If changes (like a new caregiver or even just a new sippy cup) are
stressing him out, maintain stability in other parts of his life and offer support and understanding.
You may be wondering when your 23-month-old will stop asking to replay songs on the annoying kids’ playlist you just
played for the five billionth time. Toddlers love repetition, so embrace this phase as they’re learning and processing
new experiences and ideas.
In this article:

23-Month-Old Development

23-Month-Old Sleep

23-Month-Old Food

Activities for a 23-Month-Old

23-Month-Old Baby Checklist/Tips
23-Month-Old Development
Your child is making physical and verbal leaps and bounds, and you're probably astonished by the progress she's made. A
year ago, she was a squishy baby attached to your hip. These days, she’s grown taller, probably leaned out a lot (oh,
how we miss those cuddly baby rolls!) and is much more verbal and active.
23-Month-Old Weight & Height
Average weight of a 23-month-old is 25.9 pounds for girls and 26.3 pounds for boys. Average height of a 23-month-old is
33.7 inches for girls and 34.2 inches for boys.
23-Month-Old Milestones
Here are some milestones your 23-month-old may have hit or may be working on:
•
Motor skills.
Your 23-month-old might be kicking a ball, walking backwards, and may even be able to balance on one foot while holding
onto a sturdy chair or wall. Soon, she might be able to pedal a tricycle.
•
Speech.
He's probably saying 50 words or as many as 100. He's probably working on saying sentences of two to four words, and is
listening closely—learning up to 10 new words each day.
•
Teething.
Your toddler's lower second molars and/or upper second molars might be erupting, causing some teething discomfort.
•
Potty Training.
Some 23-month-olds show signs of potty training readiness. And it's okay to start if you feel she's prepared. But beware
of putting pressure on your kid to potty train—it's still early. Most kids aren't quite ready to start until about 27 to
32 months.
23-Month-Old Behavior
As your child gets older, here’s advice and tips on how to deal with new behaviors:
•
Tantrums.
Get ready for the terrible twos. It's normal for a 23-month-old to completely lose control over his emotions—especially
when he's tired or hungry. So keep your toddler well-rested and well-fed. When a tantrum starts, try to stay calm and
use the art of distraction when you can.
•
Autism.
At the upcoming 2-year checkup, your child's pediatrician will likely ask you a series of questions about your child's
behavior to look for signs of autism. Bring up anything you think may be atypical.
•
Separation Anxiety.
Your child is probably starting to figure out that if he throws a fit, you might not leave. As hard as it is, gently
show him that his tears aren't going to change the routine. Keep goodbyes short and sweet, and reassure him you'll be
back—and be specific with the details. For example, “I’ll be back after your nap.”
•
Seeking approval.
Soon your child will show signs she's aware of your approval…or disapproval. This is an important early step in learning
positive behaviors.
23-Month-Old Health
Health is always a top concern for parents, and this age is no different. Some common health questions parents of
23-month-olds have include:
• My 23-month-old has
diarrhea
. What should I do?
• My 23-month-old is
constipated
. What should I do?
• My 23-month-old is
throwing up
. What should I do?
• My 23-month-old has a
fever
. What should I do?
23-Month-Old Sleep
Whether your child loves or hates bedtime, you probably have questions about what's typical when it comes to sleep for a
23-month-old—and what to do when there are hiccups in the usual sleep routine.
How Much Sleep Does a 23-Month-Old Need?
Most 23-month-olds need around 11 to 12 hours of nighttime sleep, plus a nap of about 1.5 to 3 hours, for a total of
about 13 to 14 hours of sleep per day.
Every kid is different, but your child's schedule may look something like this:
23-Month-Old Sleep Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
23-Month-Old Sleep Regression
Is your 23-month-old waking up at night? Sleep regression can happen because of teething, separation anxiety or a change
in sleep routine. To get back to the usual snoozing routine, it's important to know the root of the problem, so you can
help your child get through it. Stick with the usual bedtime routine and set limits (such as no sleeping in mommy and
daddy's room) that will help your child get back on track.
23-Month-Old Food
When feeding a 23-month-old, curb your expectations. They're not likely to eat nearly as much as older family members,
and they might seem to love a food one day, then totally reject it the next.
How Much Should My 23-Month-Old Eat and Drink?
One- to 2-year-olds should be eating much like you do: Three meals per day, plus two snacks. Offer him a variety of
foods in all food groups—vegetables, fruits, grains, protein and dairy—daily.
A serving of pasta the size of a Ping-Pong ball, protein as big as four marbles, and chopped veggies or fruit around the
size of four dominoes are all considered normal portions for a toddler this age.
What to Feed My 23-Month-Old
Continue to offer your child a variety of foods at each meal and snack. Most toddlers should eat about ¾ to 1 cup of
fruits and veggies, ¼ cup grains and three tablespoons of protein per day.
Looking for some tasty and nutritious meal inspiration? Check out these food ideas for a 23-month-old:
•
24 Healthy Snacks for Kids
•
22 Tasty, Easy Lunch Ideas
•
15 Creative Meal Ideas for Toddlers
•
Toddler-Friendly Cookbooks
23-Month-Old Feeding Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
Source:
HealthyChildren.org
23-Month-Old Won’t Eat
Got a picky eater? Most toddlers do get proper nutrition when their parents serve a variety of foods—even if it doesn’t
always seem that way. But, unlike adults who often eat out of habit or boredom, toddlers tend to eat only when they’re
hungry. And remember: New foods are scary to your toddler. So manage your expectations; it may take inspecting new foods
several times before she’ll actually taste them—don’t force it. But continue trying, so she gets used to sampling
different flavors.
Activities for a 23-Month-Old
Now that your tot is steady on his feet, there are lots of ways to have fun and stay active together.
Things to Do With a 23-Month-Old
Fun activities, games and toys for a 23-month-old include:
•
Walking games.
A game, like “Let’s try not to step on the cracks,” can keep your toddler on his own two feet when you’re out and about
without the stroller.
•
Pull toys.
Your child is walking more smoothly than he did months ago and is probably ready to pull a wagon or a wheeled toy with a
handle.
•
Tricycle or balance bike.
Look for a trike or bike built for a 2-year-old, so your child can learn to pedal or scoot.
23-Month-Old Baby Checklist/Tips
• Plan your child's
second birthday party
and send out invitations.
• Time for a third (or fourth) round of childproofing—now that your kid is an experienced climber and more thorough
explorer.
• Keep a quote book. Now that your child is saying sentences, you'll want to write down the funniest and smartest lines
as a
sweet memento
of the toddler years.24-Month-Old
Your toddler is 2 years old. Happy birthday!
She’s playing pretend, sorting stuff into categories, and is hip to simple abstract concepts (like “sooner” vs.
“later”). She’s also getting more verbal every day, is sometimes whiny, and may be having a little separation anxiety.
She likes to do things for herself and, of course, can throw a doozy of a tantrum. The fun part: She’s big on showing
other emotions too, like love and joy, and is absolutely smitten with you.
In this article:

24-Month-Old Development

24-Month-Old Sleep

24-Month-Old Food

Activities for a 24-Month-Old

24-Month-Old Baby Checklist/Tips
2-Year-Old Development
As your child continues to grow, you might find his confidence growing too. This can mean becoming braver about trying
new things—and testing his parents' limits.
2-Year-Old Weight & Height
Wondering how much should a 2-year-old weigh? Average weight for a 24-month-old is 26.5 pounds for girls and 27.5 pounds
for boys, according to the World Health Organization.
How tall is the average 2-year-old? Average height for a 24-month-old is 33.5 inches for girls and 34.2 inches for boys.
At the 2-year checkup, the pediatrician will weigh and measure her, and make sure her growth is following a healthy
upward curve on the growth chart.
2-Year-Old Milestones
Here are some milestones your 24-month-old may have hit or may be working on:
•
Motor skills.
Your 24-month-old can probably walk up the stairs one foot at a time and jump with both feet at once.
•
Speech.
He may be saying 50 words or as many as 100. He may even be saying two-word phrases—but it's not usually worrisome if he
isn't. The doctor will probably check for hearing problems if he's not talking as much as expected.
•
Teething.
A toddler's upper second molars tend to poke through around the second birthday, causing some teething discomfort.
•
Potty Training.
The second birthday is a popular time to start ramping up potty training efforts if your child is showing signs of
readiness. This may include telling you she has to go, wanting her dirty or wet diaper changed, showing interest in the
potty, the ability to pull her pants up and down, and/or staying dry for at least two hours in a row. Don't rush her if
she's not there yet; experts say potty training is likely to go most smoothly when started between 27 and 32 months.
2-Year-Old Behavior
Now that your child is officially 24 months old, here’s advice on how to deal with new toddler behaviors:
•
Tantrums.
Welcome to the terrible twos. Seventy-five percent of kids have tantrums by the time they hit age 2, so your child is
certainly not alone in this tough phase. But it's not always as, well, terrible as it sounds. In fact, you may start to
learn what helps stop your child's tantrums. Some kids calm with shushing, others respond to distraction, and still
others may just have to let out their frustration.
•
Separation Anxiety.
It's common for 2-year-olds to have a tough time separating from mom or dad. As hard as it is, gently but firmly show
him his tears aren't going to change things. Keep goodbyes short and sweet, and reassure him you'll be back—and be
specific with the details. For example, “I’ll be back after your nap.”
•
Emotions.
A 2-year-old's feelings are
big
. Don't worry about constantly trying to cheer her up or convincing her not to be angry. But do teach her how to use
words to describe her feelings and explain that she's
mad
or
sad
. Acknowledgment is an important step toward learning to handle negative emotions.
2-Year-Old Health
• My 24-month-old has
diarrhea
. What should I do?
• My 24-month-old is
constipated
. What should I do?
• My 24-month-old is
throwing up
. What should I do?
• My 24-month-old has a
fever
. What should I do?
2-Year-Old Sleep
Don't be surprised if your child's afternoon nap gets a little bit shorter as he gets older. But keep in mind his total
sleep per day should remain about the same, so you might consider putting him to bed a little earlier on days with
shorter naps.
How Much Sleep Does a 2-Year-Old Need?
Most 24-month-olds need around 11 to 12 hours of nighttime sleep, plus a nap of about 1.5 to 3 hours, for a total of
about 13 to 14 hours of sleep per day.
Every kid is different, but your child's schedule may look something like this:
2-Year-Old Sleep Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
2-Year-Old Sleep Regression
Tired because your 2-year-old is waking up at night? Regression can happen when a formerly good sleeper suddenly begins
waking more, throwing her parents for a loop. A bout of teething or illness could be the cause, or maybe a trip or
holiday where her sleep routine changed. To get back to the usual snoozing routine, it's important to know the root of
the problem, so you can help your child get through it. Stick with the usual bedtime routine and set limits that will
help your child get back on track.
2-Year-Old Food
There's one big change to your child's menu this month: Now that she's two years old, you should switch her from whole
milk to 1 percent or skim milk. Try to offer low-fat dairy products, such as yogurt and cheese, as well. Doctors
recommend kids ages one to three get 700 mg of calcium per day. Fat should account for less than 30 percent of your
toddler's daily calories.
How Much Should My 24-Month-Old Be Eating?
Two-year-olds should continue to eat three meals per day, plus two snacks. Offer her a variety of foods in all food
groups—vegetables, fruits, grains, protein and dairy—daily.
A serving of pasta the size of a Ping-Pong ball, protein as big as four marbles, and chopped veggies or fruit around the
size of four dominoes are all considered normal portions for a toddler this age.
What to Feed My 24-Month-Old
Variety is still key. Most toddlers should eat about ¾ to 1 cup of fruits and veggies, ¼ cup grains and three
tablespoons of protein per day.
Looking for some tasty and nutritious meal inspiration? Check out these food ideas for a 2-year-old:
•
24 Healthy Snacks for Kids
•
22 Tasty, Easy Lunch Ideas
•
15 Creative Meal Ideas for Toddlers
•
Toddler-Friendly Cookbooks
2-Year-Old Feeding Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
Source:
HealthyChildren.org
2-Year-Old Not Eating/Picky Eater
Try not to worry too much if your child is turning down nutritious foods and choosing only white and brown foods. It's
normal for 24-month-olds to be
picky eaters
—consider it his way of exercising his newfound independence. The best you can do is keep offering nutritious food
options, choosing and preparing food together, and modeling healthy eating behaviors for your child. He'll come around
to eating other colors…eventually.
Activities for a 2-Year-Old
Your 2-year-old is probably interested in coloring, building and pretend play. You might find she's spending more time
playing independently than she used to.
Things to Do With a 2-Year-Old
Fun activities, games and toys for a 2-year-old include:
•
Crayons.
Two-year-olds will pretend to write if you give them crayons and paper.
•
Building blocks.
Duplos and other large Lego-type blocks are excellent toys to help build fine motor skills.
•
Imaginative play.
Playing with dolls, cars, trains and stuffed animals are all popular activities for 2-year-olds.
2-Year-Old Baby Checklist/Tips
• Take your toddler to her
2-year (24-month) checkup
.
• Schedule your toddler's 2 ½-year (30-month) checkup.
• Instead of brushing teeth, let your toddler “paint” her teeth (with toothpaste, of course). This makes it way more
fun.
•Thinking about
baby No. 2
? Try reading books together about bringing home a new sibling, like
Babies Don’t Eat Pizza
by Dianne Danzig. Spend time around babies, so he learns how to touch them gently. And, if he’ll be moving out of his
crib or into a new room, make the change at least four weeks before you’re due so he has time to adjust.25-Month-Old
Your toddler is 25 months old!
Has your 25-month-old started to exert her independence? We’re talking about stomping, screaming, defying and all those
other frustrating (and totally normal for this age) behaviors. Two-year-olds are possibly the most stubborn,
self-centered creatures on earth. They want what they want, when they want it—usually, right now! The good news is your
child’s stubborn streak means she’s going through a ton of cognitive growth. She now understands that she’s a separate
person who can make things happen in the world. So of course, she's making them happen. Rest assured that eventually,
things will get less, um, dramatic.
In this article:

25-Month-Old Development

25-Month-Old Sleep

25-Month-Old Food

Activities for a 25-Month-Old

25-Month-Old Baby Checklist/Tips
25-Month-Old Development
In addition to his (sometimes frustrating) personality, your 25-month-old's body and brain continue to grow and develop
in a variety of ways.
25-Month-Old Weight & Height
Average weight for a 25-month- old is around 27.1 pounds for girls and 28.4 pounds for boys. Average height is around
34.0 inches for girls and 34.5 inches for boys, according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
25-Month-Old Milestones
What should my 25-month-old be doing? Here are some milestones your 25-month-old may have hit or may be working on:
•
Speech.
Your 25-month-old probably uses simple phrases and may be saying two- to four-word sentences. Most 2-year-olds are able
to say 50 to 100 words. If your 25-month-old isn’t talking, let your pediatrician know. Some kids simply need more time;
others may have a hearing problem or may benefit from an early intervention program.
•
Potty training.
Some kids are ready to begin potty training at 25 months, but others aren’t—and if you try to push the issue, you’ll
just end up losing to a very stubborn toddler. Watch for signs of readiness and reward any small successes, like sitting
on the potty, if only for a few moments.
•
Teething.
Your child may be cutting his second molars. Also known as the
2-year molars
, these pearly whites tend to erupt between 20 and 33 months. And since they're big, it can be a painful process. The
good news is they're the last teeth to come in until around age 6, when kids can better deal with the discomfort, so
soon, you'll be done with teething woes.
25-Month-Old Behavior
•
Independence.
Your 25-month-old likes to be in charge. Let your toddler make small decisions, like which shirt to wear today, but
don’t be afraid to say no to the big things, like letting her climb the tallest slide in the park or the back of the
couch. Two-year-olds need consistent, safe limits.
•
Tantrums.
Mega meltdowns may still be a problem. Be patient; eventually he’ll learn not to flip out so much.
•
Defiance.
At this age, there are lots of challenging behaviors that kind of depend on the child's personality. For example, some
kids refuse to get into their car seat and others love to draw all over the walls when their parents are on the phone.
This is where limits and firm consequences can help: "The car
stops
and we don’t go to the playground without the car seat buckled." "If you draw on the walls, you have to help Mommy clean
them up." Give your child lots of positive attention when she's being good, and keep the permanent markers out of reach.
25-Month-Old Health
Health is always a top concern for parents, and this age is no different. Some common health questions parents of
25-month-olds have are:
• My 25-month-old has
diarrhea
. What should I do?
• My 25-month-old is
constipated
. What should I do?
• My 25-month-old is
throwing up
. What should I do?
• My 25-month old has a
cough
. What should I do?
• My 25-month-old has a
fever
. What should I do?
25-Month-Old Sleep
As with every age, sleep routine is key for 25-month-olds. Stick to your usual, soothing bedtime rituals and be firm
about the rules: One or two books per night, but not 10. Twenty-five-month-olds can be con artists and ask for a million
books, songs, hugs—anything to delay bedtime. Try not to have negotiations every night; keep things consistent and
fairly quick.
How Much Sleep Does a 25-Month-Old Need?
Most 2-year-olds need around 11 to 12 hours of nighttime sleep, plus a nap of about 1.5 to 3 hours, for a total of about
13 to 14 hours of sleep per day.
Every kid is different, but your child's schedule may look something like this:
25-Month-Old Sleep Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
25-Month-Old Sleep Problems
Night waking
If your 25-month-old is waking at night, it can disrupt the whole family. To encourage a good night's sleep, you'll
probably want to stick to certain nighttime rules. For example, if your child wakes at night and calls you, you come
comfort her for just a few minutes before making an exit. Or if she comes into your room, you lead her back to her bed
and tuck her right back in. It's probably okay to make exceptions when your 25-month-old is sick, has a nightmare or is
teething. But otherwise, it’s best to stick to your guns.
25-Month-Old Food
At 25 months, focus on instilling good eating habits into your child. Pediatricians recommend having meals together as a
family, making healthy food choices and not worrying too much about
how much
food your child is eating. In other words, don't pressure him to clean his plate.
How Much Should My 25-Month-Old Be Eating?
Two-year-olds should continue to eat three meals per day, plus two snacks. Offer her a variety of foods in all food
groups—vegetables, fruits, grains, protein, and dairy—daily. Portion size isn't big at this age: Expect your kid to eat
only ¼ to ½ as much as an adult.
Now that your child is 2 years old, he should be drinking 1% or skim milk, not whole milk. Try to offer low-fat dairy
products, such as yogurt and cheese too. Doctors recommend kids ages one to three get 700 mg of calcium per day. Fat
should account for less than 30 percent of your toddler's daily calories.
If your child is breastfeeding or gets calcium for other sources, she might not need to be drinking as much cow's milk
as that. Nursing toddlers may only need to supplement with cow's milk if they’re not growing as expected on the growth
chart; check with your child's pediatrician.
When to wean a toddler is a personal choice. If you're interested in weaning your 25-month-old, go slow to prevent
plugged ducts and infection for you and to make the process easier on your child.
What to Feed My 25-Month-Old
Looking for some tasty and nutritious meal inspiration? Check out these food ideas for a 2-year-old:
•
Healthy Foods Your Toddler Will Love
•
15 Creative Meal Ideas for Toddlers
•
22 Easy, Tasty Kid's Lunch Ideas
•
Yum's the Word! 24 Healthy Snacks for Kids
25-Month-Old Feeding Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
Source:
HealthyChildren.org
25-Month-Old Eating Problems
Picky eating is common at age 2, and while it's good to want your child to eat fruits and veggies, you never want to
turn the dinner table into a battlefield. If you continue to offer a variety of nutritious food choices and let your
2-year-old choose from them, you're already setting her up for a healthy diet.
Toddlers tend to enjoy finger foods—like raw carrot sticks and celery, maybe even with a little dip—so try those if he's
not into steamed or cooked veggies. Just keep a close eye on him to avoid a choking incident.
Activities for 25-Month-Old
25-month-olds love to walk and ride (gross motor skills), use their hands (fine motor skills), and have new fun,
experiences.
What to do with a 25-month-old
Fun activities, games and toys for a 25-month-old are:
•
Pop-up toys.
Consider a plaything like a jack-in-the-box or an activity center with buttons and switches that make characters appear.
These can teach cause and effect to a 25-month-old.
•
Texture.
Simple toys such as a bin of dry rice or beans, sand in a sandbox or Play-Doh let your child manipulate things with
their hands. And they learn about size and quantity by filling up different-sized containers.
•
Musical instruments.
A toy piano, drum or xylophone will allow your kid to experiment with sound.
•
Outings.
Take your child to the park, pet store, aquarium or train station to experience new places and sights.
•
Pushing and riding toys.
A toy lawn mower, doll stroller, tricycle, or wagon are fun for an on-the-go 25-month-old.
25-Month-Old Baby Checklist/Tips
• It's normal for a 2-year-old to regress and want to be carried more often. Try to make trips fun by giving your child
a "big kid" job, like holding a (light) bag of groceries while she walks. And consider having an umbrella stroller on
hand for particularly stubborn moments.
• Don’t feel like playing with your kid? That's totally okay. Get him started on a bit of pretend play and then cook
dinner or get other tasks done within his line of sight, while periodically checking on him.
• Moving to a toddler bed can be a tough transition. But if your child is consistently climbing out of the crib, it's
time. Some people might recommend using a "crib tent" to discourage climbing but they're not considered safe. A bed with
rails, a low-to-the-ground toddler bed, or even a mattress on the floor are much better options.26-Month-Old
Your toddler is 26 months old!
By 26 months, most kids have a vocabulary of 50 words or more, and can combine two words into a simple sentence, like
“Mommy eat” or “More cracker.” Keep on chatting and your kid will keep learning. If he isn’t saying anything yet or if
strangers can’t understand
anything
he says, it’s a good idea to check in with his pediatrician just to make sure everything’s okay. Remember: Developmental
delays caught early can be more easily overcome.
In this article:

26-Month-Old Development

26-Month-Old Sleep

26-Month-Old Food

Activities for a 26-Month-Old

26-Month-Old Baby Checklist/Tips
26-Month-Old Development
Two-year-olds all grow and develop at different rates, but as long as yours is on the upswing with the growth charts and
with learning new words and skills, there's probably nothing to be concerned about.
26-Month-Old Weight & Height
Average weight for a 26-month-old is around 27.4 pounds for girls and 28.7 pounds for boys. Average height is around
34.3 inches for girls and 34.8 inches for boys, according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
26-Month-Old Milestones
What should my 26-month-old old be doing?
Here are some milestones your 26-month-old may have hit or may be working on:
•
Speech.
As we mentioned above, your little chatterbox may be using two-word sentences and probably has a hugely increasing
vocabulary. She follows simple instructions and can copy actions and words. Doesn't sound familiar? At 26 months old,
speech development can vary widely from child to child. But a 26-month-old not talking should definitely be evaluated,
as a hearing problem could be causing the speech delay, or the child might need a little extra help from speech therapy.
•
Potty training.
If your child is starting to use the potty, it probably feels like a huge victory. (Congrats!) But know that potty
training setbacks can happen. If your child is having a lot of accidents, it simply means the potty training process
isn't over yet. Potty training a 26-month-old doesn't happen overnight. Remember that every time your child has an
accident, he's learning from it. Keep the process positive by praising successes and helping clean up (without making a
big deal about it) when he doesn't make it to the bathroom.
•
Teething.
Your child may be cutting her second molars. Also known as the
2-year molars
, these pearly whites tend to erupt between 20 and 33 months. And since they're big, it can be a painful process. The
good news is they're the last teeth to come in until around age 6, when kids can better deal with the discomfort, so
soon, you'll be done with teething woes.
26-Month-Old Behavior
•
Asking Questions.
About everything. Your kid now has the communication skills to ask, so you should be thrilled! But it's normal to feel a
little exhausted of trying to come up with as many answers as questions he asks.
•
Concentration.
Your child probably concentrates so much on playing that he may not even want to take a break for meals. Give warnings
beforehand that it will be time to take a break soon to ease the transition between activities.
•
Biting.
It's common for 26-month-olds to bite or hit or otherwise hurt others. Some kids learn it at daycare or all on their
own. When your kid bites or hits, clearly let her know this is not acceptable behavior. Comforting the hurt child—not
the biter or hitter—shows the biter that this bad behavior doesn't give her the attention she might crave.
•
Play.
Your child can probably find a hidden object, sorts items (by size or color), and likes to use his imagination.
26-Month-Old Health
Health is always a top concern for parents, and this age is no different. Some common health questions parents of
26-month-olds have are:
• My 26-month-old has diarrhea. What should I do? • My 26-month-old is constipated. What should I do? • My 26-month-old
is throwing up. What should I do? • My 26-month old has a cough. What should I do? • My 26-month-old has a fever. What
should I do?
26-Month-Old Sleep
Two-year-olds seem to get more sleep than adults do, but they also tend to wake up more often. So it's important to
teach kids how to fall back to sleep on their own—without help —after they've woken. This means always putting your
child to bed while tired, but not asleep. Letting them fall asleep on their own helps them to learn to do just that when
they wake up at 2 a.m.
How Much Sleep Does a 26-Month-Old Need?
Most 2-year-olds need around 11 to 12 hours of nighttime sleep, plus a nap of about 1.5 to 3 hours, for a total of about
13 to 14 hours of sleep per day.
Every kid is different, but your child's schedule may look something like this:
26-Month-Old Sleep Schedule:
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
26-Month-Old Sleep Problems
If you've moved your 26-month-old from a crib to a bed, you may find the adjustment challenging. After all, he can get
up most any time of night—and many kids do at first. Keep praising your child when he sleeps in his bed for long
stretches. And keep leading him back to bed when he wakes at night.
26-Month-Old Food
Even if your child wants stick to a firm menu of three to four favorite foods, continue to offer her new flavors and
textures. Don't sweat it if she doesn't warm to the idea right away, but keep trying to get her used to at least
tasting
new things on her plate.
How Much Should My 26-Month-Old Be Eating?
Two-year-olds should continue to eat three meals per day, plus two snacks. Offer him a variety of foods in all food
groups—vegetables, fruits, grains, protein and dairy—daily. Portion size isn't big at this age: Expect your kid to eat
only ¼ to ½ as much as an adult.
Now that your child is 2 years old, she should be drinking 1% or skim milk, not whole milk. Try to offer low-fat dairy
products, such as yogurt and cheese too. Doctors recommend kids ages one to three get 700 mg of calcium per day. Fat
should account for less than 30 percent of your toddler's daily calories.
What to Feed My 26-Month-Old
Looking for some tasty and nutritious meal inspiration? Check out these food ideas for a 2-year-old:
•
Healthy Foods Your Toddler Will Love
•
15 Creative Meal Ideas for Toddlers
•
22 Easy, Tasty Kid's Lunch Ideas
•
Yum's the Word! 24 Healthy Snacks for Kids
26-Month-Old Feeding Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
Source:
HealthyChildren.org
26-Month-Old Eating Problems
Picky eating is common among 26-month-olds so you might find yourself wondering whether your child should be taking
vitamins. Talk to your child's pediatrician to be sure. Some recommend iron supplements, since tots tend not to get
enough of the nutrient. Fiber may also be a concern, to counteract constipation, but getting enough fruit and veggies
might be all he needs to get his digestive system working properly.
Activities for 26-Month-Old
Your 26-month-old is exploring the world through play. Keep up the fun by doing activities together but also encouraging
her to stretch his imagination while playing on her own.
What to do with a 26-month-old
Fun activities, games and toys for a 26-month-old are:
•
Coloring.
Your 26-month-old probably loves scribbling back-and-forth. He’ll do best with big, bulky crayons he can grasp in his
fists; he’s not likely to hold one correctly until closer to 4 years old.
•
Hide and seek.
Now your child can find hidden objects, so have fun hiding a favorite teddy bear or action figure and then looking for
it together.
•
Easy art projects.
Use a simple cardboard box. Together, you can decorate it, and then, with a little imagination, the box can become a
house, spaceship or wagon!
•
Books.
As you're reading, you don't have to stick with the words on the page. You can ask you child what color the bear is or
what they think will happen next. This makes for fun conversations that get your 26-month-old critically thinking.
26-Month-Old Baby Checklist/Tips
• Why is the sky blue anyhow? Your kid's probably asking a lot of questions. Answer simply and briefly. And know it's
okay to say you don't know and suggest you find book on the topic at the library later. You'll both learn a thing or
two.
• Experts say kids can only stay still for approximately three to five minutes per year of age, so you've got a whopping
6 to 10 minutes of stillness in your 2-year old. Curb your expectations. If you're going to a restaurant, a play or some
other event, bring lots of snacks and activities but also don't be surprised if you have to leave really (really) early.
• Upset? It's okay to show emotion in front of your toddler, especially if you're explaining your feelings to him. It's
good for him to understand that it’s normal to have a wide range of emotions.27-Month-Old
Your toddler is 27 months old!
Have you noticed your child acting differently when she's outside of your home? Maybe your usually outgoing kid hides
behind your legs when strangers are around, or maybe she’s an angel at daycare—and a troublemaker at home. This
inconsistency is completely normal at this age. Two-year-olds adapt their behavior to the environment and toward whether
or not they trust certain people. Unfortunately for you, trusting you means she’s more likely to push your buttons.
In this article:

27-Month-Old Development

27-Month-Old Sleep

27-Month-Old Food

Activities for a 27-Month-Old

27-Month-Old Baby Checklist/Tips
27-Month-Old Development
As your 27-month-old grows and learns new skills, you'll find her making a ton of changes.
27-Month-Old Weight & Height
Average weight for a 27-month-old is around 27.8 pounds for girls and 29.0 pounds for boys. Average height is around
34.6 inches for girls and 35.1 inches for boys, according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
27-Month-Old Milestones
What should my 27-month-old be doing?
Here are some milestones your 27-month-old may have hit or may be working on:
•
Speech.
While your 27-month-old may be saying more words, they might not all be easy to understand. Two-year-olds commonly have
trouble properly making certain letter sounds (
th
,
l
or
s
, for example). Stuttering and mixing up the order of words within a sentence are typical too. But these aren't usually
considered issues at this age—your child is still learning! A 27-month-old not talking on the other hand, probably needs
some extra help. Discuss any speech concerns with your pediatrician.
•
Potty Training.
Haven't started potty training? The time might be now!
One study
found potty training was most successful with kids when started between 27 and 32 months of age. This is the time frame
kids tend to be mature enough to get it, but not old enough to want to resist too much.
Potty Training.
•
Teething.
Your child may be cutting his second molars. Also known as the
2-year molars
, these pearly whites tend to erupt between 20 and 33 months. And since they're big, it can be a painful process. The
good news is they're the last teeth to come in until around age 6, when kids can better deal with the discomfort, so
soon, you'll be done with teething woes.
27-Month-Old Behavior
•
Love of repetition.
Your 27-month-old does things over and over again—a little scientist at work, she’s trying to see if X always leads to
Y. Predictable, repetitive results help her feel secure in the world. So even though you might be sick of reading
Goodnight Moon
, she’s not. Read it again.
•
Parallel play.
Your child might not play
with
other kids just yet, but he may enjoy playing alongside other kids doing the same activity.
•
Fear of strangers or places.
You might find your 27-month-old has a fear of the doctor or the barber. It may help to bring her by the office or salon
when she
doesn't
have an appointment, so she gets used to being there when scissors and shots aren't involved.
27-Month-Old Health
Health is always a top concern for parents, and this age is no different. Some common health questions parents of
27-month-olds have are:
• My 27-month-old has
diarrhea
. What should I do? • My 27-month-old is
constipated
. What should I do? • My 27-month-old is
throwing up
. What should I do? • My 27-month old has a
cough
. What should I do? • My 27-month-old has a
fever
. What should I do?
27-Month-Old Sleep
Consistency is key for helping a 27-month-old have healthy sleep habits. So stick to a usual bedtime, and continue to
set aside time for a daily nap.
How Much Sleep Does a 27-Month-Old Need?
Most 2-year-olds need around 11 to 12 hours of nighttime sleep, plus a nap of about 1.5 to 3 hours, for a total of about
13 to 14 hours of sleep per day.
Every kid is different, but your child's schedule may look something like this:
27-Month-Old Sleep Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
27-Month-Old Sleep Problems
Kid resisting naps? Stick to the schedule. Even if your 2-year-old seems like he wants to stop napping, he still needs
up to 14 hours total sleep per day to feel fully rested. And a routine is the best way to make it happen. So make sure
you're blocking out the same quiet time each day for a nap at home.
27-Month-Old Food
When feeding a 27-month-old, don't focus too much on quantity, and don't sweat it if every meal she eats isn't
perfectly
balanced. In fact, experts recommend looking at toddler nutrition over the course of a
week
, not a day, when evaluating whether or not your kid is eating right.
How Much Should My 27-Month-Old Be Eating?
Two-year olds should continue to eat three meals per day, plus two snacks. Offer him a variety of foods in all food
groups—vegetables, fruits, grains, protein and dairy—daily. Portion size isn't big at this age: Expect your kid to eat
only ¼ to ½ as much as an adult.
Your 2-year-old should be drinking 1% or skim milk (not whole milk). Try to offer low-fat dairy products, such as yogurt
and cheese too. Doctors recommend kids ages one to three get 700 mg of calcium per day. Fat should account for less than
30 percent of your toddler's daily calories.
What to Feed My 27-Month-Old
Looking for some tasty and nutritious meal inspiration? Check out these food ideas for a 2-year-old:
•
Healthy Foods Your Toddler Will Love
•
15 Creative Meal Ideas for Toddlers
•
22 Easy, Tasty Kid's Lunch Ideas
•
Yum's the Word! 24 Healthy Snacks for Kids
27-Month-Old Feeding Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
Source:
HealthyChildren.org
27-Month-Old Eating Problems
Some 27-month-olds may seem more interested in snacks than they are in meals. If you can't beat 'em, join 'em! Make sure
the snack choices you give your toddler are healthy and well balanced. That way, you'll feel good that your child is
getting good nutrition throughout her day, even when she barely touches her dinner.
Activities for a 27-Month-Old
While your 27-month-old plays, he's learning and developing his cognitive and motor skills.
What to do with a 27-month-old?
Fun activities, games and toys for a 27-month-old are:
•
Puzzles and latch boards.
Your child will learn shapes and practice her fine motor skills by assembling and latching wood pieces into place.
•
Push-and-pull toys.
Toy shopping carts and mini wagons give him a chance to work on gross motor skills.
•
Lacing.
Wood shapes with holes for laces, or big beads with yarn are fun projects to keep 27-month-olds busy.
27-Month-Old Baby Checklist/Tips
• Try to avoid power struggles with your toddler. There are going to be a lot of things you can't force your child to do
(eat, sleep and use the potty, to name a few). Save the punishments ("time out" may work at this age) for when your
child really breaks the rules, such as biting.
• Transitioning to a big bed? Some parents ease the transition by letting a child nap in the bed for a few days before
trying it for a whole night.
• Now that your child is getting more independent, find ways to focus on you. Make more plans to get coffee or a meal
with friends, join a club or take a class in a topic or hobby that interests you.28-Month-Old
Your toddler is 28 months old!
Your toddler is all over the place, isn’t he? Now he can run and climb and move astonishingly quickly, so even though
you baby-proofed when he was little, you’ll want to do it again now. Make sure bookcases and dressers are secured to the
wall, since a climbing 2-year-old can easily cause tall, heavy furniture to topple (yikes!). Sharp or dangerous objects
such as knives should be secured well out of reach; 2-year-olds are curious about everything, and they can get their
hands on more than you may realize.
In this article:

28-Month-Old Development

28-Month-Old Sleep

28-Month-Old Food

Activities for a 28-Month-Old

28-Month-Old Baby Checklist/Tips
28-Month-Old Development
You are probably finding your 28-month-old is changing quickly, developing new skills and some adorable—and sometimes
challenging— personality traits.
28-Month-Old Weight & Height
Average weight for a 28-month-old is around 28.1 pounds for girls and 29.3 pounds for boys. Average height is around
35.0 inches for girls and 35.4 inches for boys, according to the US Centers for Disease Control.
28-Month-Old Milestones
What should my 28-month-old be doing?
Here are some milestones your 28-month-old toddler may have hit or may be working on:
•
Speech.
When it comes to language, your child is catching on quickly, learning new words at an astounding rate. Her grammar on
the other hand, still needs a little work. Don’t be concerned about correcting your kid at this age. Over time, she'll
learn how to use language properly by listening to others. A 28-month-old not talking may need early intervention for a
little extra speech help, so talk to the pediatrician if you suspect your child is behind verbally.
•
Potty Training.
If your child is showing
signs of readiness
, now may be a good time to potty train. Some parents say that potty training a 28-month-old girl and potty training a
28-month-old boy can be quite different. Boys are notorious for taking a bit longer to potty train—but that's not always
the case. Start your boy learning to pee while sitting down, since good aim takes some time and practice. If you have a
girl, teach her to wipe carefully from front to back.
•
Teething.
Your 28-month-old child may be teething with his second molars. Also known as the
2-year molars
, these pearly whites tend to erupt between 20 and 33 months. And since they're big, it can be a painful process. The
good news is they're the last teeth to come in until around age 6, when kids can better deal with the discomfort, so
soon, you'll be done with teething woes.
28-Month-Old Behavior
•
Extreme Personality Traits.
Some 28-month-olds show fear of trying new things, and others display tons of independence.
•
Trouble with Transitions.
It might be tough for your kid to stop playing and get dressed, or to quit splashing in that puddle and walk the rest of
the way to school. Lots of patience and verbal warnings can help you get her moving along.
•
Separation Anxiety.
If your child is going to preschool or daycare, he may have trouble saying goodbye to you in the mornings. Keep
drop-offs short and sweet. Most kids are okay soon after their parents leave, even though they put on a pretty good show
(of tears) to try to get them to stay.
•
Little Helper.
She probably can now follow directions—with up to four steps—and likes to pitch in and help with chores or errands.
28-Month-Old Health
Health is always a top concern for parents, and this age is no different. Some common health questions parents of
28-month-olds have are:
• My 28-month-old has
diarrhea
. What should I do? • My 28-month-old is
constipated
. What should I do? • My 28-month-old is
throwing up
. What should I do? • My 28-month old has a
cough
. What should I do? • My 28-month-old has a
fever
. What should I do?
28-Month-Old Sleep
Consistency is key for a 28-month-old's sleep routine. Try to stick with usual bedtimes and naptimes to keep crankiness
and restlessness at bay. When something changes the routine —a special event that runs through naptime, for example—go
with the flow. But try to get back on track as soon as you can.
How Much Sleep Does a 28-Month-Old Need?
Most 2-year-olds need around 11 to 12 hours of nighttime sleep, plus a nap of about 1.5 to 3 hours, for a total of about
13 to 14 hours of sleep per day.
Every kid is different, but your child's schedule may look something like this:
28-Month-Old Sleep Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
28-Month-Old Sleep Problems
If your 28-month-old is no longer in a crib, you may find yourself with a middle-of-the-night visitor. Experts agree
it's a good idea to kindly but firmly insist your child go back to sleep in his own bed. (Even though it may be tempting
to allow him into yours—just this once.) Lead him back to his room, tuck him in and comfort him before leaving him alone
to fall asleep. This sets the precedent that he needs to fall asleep on his own, in his own space. And it can help
everyone in the family more likely to get a full night's sleep most nights.
28-Month-Old Food
Your 28-month-old is probably pretty good at feeding herself. She probably can use a fork fairly successfully, but
spoons are a little trickier. It will be a while before she can feed herself a bowl of soup without making a huge mess.
How Much Should My 28-Month-Old Be Eating?
Two-year olds should continue to eat three meals per day, plus two snacks. Offer him a variety of foods in all food
groups—vegetables, fruits, grains, protein, and dairy—daily. Portion size isn't big at this age: Expect your kid to eat
only ¼ to ½ as much as an adult.
Your 2-year-old should be drinking 1% or skim milk (not whole milk). Try to offer low-fat dairy products, such as yogurt
and cheese too. Doctors recommend kids ages one to three get 700 mg of calcium per day. Fat should account for less than
30 percent of your toddler's daily calories.
Remember he’s still prone to choking, so avoid potentially hazardous foods such as whole grapes and raw carrots, and
keep cutting his food into tiny pieces.
What to Feed My 28-Month-Old
Looking for some tasty and nutritious meal inspiration? Check out these food ideas for a 2-year-old:
•
Healthy Foods Your Toddler Will Love
•
15 Creative Meal Ideas for Toddlers
•
22 Easy, Tasty Kid's Lunch Ideas
•
Yum's the Word! 24 Healthy Snacks for Kids
28-Month-Old Feeding Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
Source:
HealthyChildren.org
28-Month-Old Eating Problems
Want to get your 28-month-old to eat more healthy food? Get him involved in the process. Give him choices of what to
make for dinner; then plan the meal together. Go grocery shopping together and let him pick out the fruits and veggies.
Encourage him to help prep (the non-dangerous parts of) the meal. Kids tend to love to stir ingredients or help their
parents sprinkle in seasonings.
Activities for a 28-Month-Old
Sure, there are fancy kids' play spaces, state-of-the-art toys and learning apps, but truthfully a 28-month-old doesn't
need all that. Sometimes, the best activities are the simplest ones.
What to do with a 28-month-old?
Fun activities, games and toys for a 28-month-old are:
•
Blocks.
Your child may still love building with blocks. The towers are getting bigger and bigger, along with her attention span.
•
Books.
Don't be surprised if your 28-month-olds asks you to read a favorite book over and over, instead of choosing something
new. Kids this age still
love
repetition.
•
Everyday objects.
Together you and your 28-month-old can set up a backyard obstacle course using old water bottles for cones. Build a fort
out of blankets and pillows. Or build a playhouse out of a large cardboard box.
28-Month-Old Baby Checklist/Tips
• Limit TV time to 15-minute increments and two hours or less total per day. Your child learns more by playing and
having new experiences than he does by zoning out in front of the TV.
• Play date? Invite just one friend at a time. At age 2, a two-person play date is an ideal size.
• Let your toddler help you in the kitchen. This will encourage healthy eating habits and help her practice fine motor
skills.29-Month-Old
Your toddler is 29 months old!
Between the ages of 2 and 3, kids undergo a language explosion; their vocabulary undergoes massive expansion and they
begin to understand its nuances. For example, your kiddo may have started calling themself “I” or “me,” which means he’s
beginning to get pronouns. That’s a huge cognitive leap! Encourage your child's language development by reading to them
(rhythmic and repetitive stories are a huge hit right now), sing together and chat while you play.
In this article:

29-Month-Old Development

29-Month-Old Sleep

29-Month-Old Food

Activities for a 29-Month-Old

29-Month-Old Baby Checklist/Tips
29-Month-Old Development
As your 29-month-old grows, they're learning tons of new skills.
29-Month-Old Weight & Height
Average weight for a 29-month-old is around 28.4 pounds for girls and 29.6 pounds for boys. Average height is around
35.3 inches for girls and 35.7 inches for boys, according to the US Centers for Disease Control.
29-Month-Old Milestones
What should my 29-month-old be doing?
Here are some milestones your 29-month-old may have hit or may be working on:
•
Speech.
Your 29-month-old may be speaking in sentences but they probably aren't perfect sentences. For example, "Me jump big!"
Don't point out that it's incorrect but rather repeat what he's saying in a grammatically correct way. "Yes, you did
jump so high! Awesome job!" A 29-month-old not talking should get an evaluation from a pediatrician. Sometimes, the
child is communicating and just needs more time to get the words right. Other times, they need a little help from a
speech specialist.
•
Getting Dressed.
Your child can probably put on at least one piece of clothing by themself, which is welcome news after putting every
single article of clothing on your kid for almost two-and-a-half years.
•
Potty Training.
Know how kids learn to use the potty? By having accidents! So if you're potty training, instead of getting frustrated
whenever your kid wets their underwear, think of it as one step closer to learning how to keep them dry. Encourage and
praise when things go right.
•
Teething.
Your 29-month-old child may be teething with their second molars. Also known as the
2-year molars
, these pearly whites tend to erupt between 20 and 33 months. And since they're big, it can be a painful process. The
good news is they're the last teeth to come in until around age 6, when kids can better deal with the discomfort, so
soon, you'll be done with teething woes.
29-Month-Old Behavior
•
Whining.
Even if your child is highly verbal, they don't have all the words and phrases you do, so they might rely on whining to
get their point across. Make sure you're not letting your kiddo get what they want by whining; that just encourages more
of it.
•
Moodiness.
Your child gets cranky when they're hungry or tired, so don’t plan anything demanding (like a playdate or trip to Home
Depot) close to naptime or for when they haven't eaten in a while.
•
Repetition.
Your child may have favorite shows, clothes, and books they want to read over and over.
29-Month-Old Health
Health is always a top concern for parents, and this age is no different. Some common health questions parents of
29-month-olds have are:
• My 29-month-old has
diarrhea
. What should I do? • My 29-month-old is
constipated
. What should I do? • My 29-month-old is
throwing up
. What should I do? • My 29-month old has a
cough
. What should I do? • My 29-month-old has a
fever
. What should I do?
29-Month-Old Sleep
At 29 months, the experts say your child
should
have a sleep routine, but you never know what's going to come up next. Demands to stay up late, refusal to take a nap
and even maybe some new nighttime fears. It can all throw you for a loop. But eventually, you'll all get back on track.
How Much Sleep Does a 29-Month-Old Need?
Most 2-year-olds need around 11 to 12 hours of nighttime sleep, plus a nap of about 1.5 to 3 hours, for a total of about
13 to 14 hours of sleep per day.
Every kid is different, but your child's schedule may look something like this:
29-Month-Old Sleep Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
29-Month-Old Sleep Problems
Some 2-year-olds develop nighttime fears. Sticking to that soothing bedtime routine—free of anything potentially scary
or stimulating—can help make going to bed a positive experience. It's okay to indulge your kid a bit and turn on a
nightlight or keep the door open a crack. Give her a comforting stuffed animal or blankie and reassure your child that
they're safe and you're there, even when they can't see you. Some parents fill a spray bottle with water and tell their
child it's a special monster repellant they use every night at bedtime. Eventually, your child will grow out of their
nighttime fears—it just may take a while.
29-Month-Old Food
When it comes to food, as usual, it's all about balance. Sure, it's okay to let your kid have those fruit snacks or an
occasional Oreo or two. But balance that out with some apple slices and carrot sticks.
How Much Should My 29-Month-Old Be Eating?
Two-year olds should continue to eat three meals per day, plus two snacks. Offer a variety of foods in all food
groups—vegetables, fruits, grains, protein, and dairy—daily. Portion size isn't big at this age: Expect your kid to eat
only ¼ to ½ as much as an adult.
Your 2-year-old should be drinking 1% or skim milk (not whole milk). Try to offer low-fat dairy products, such as yogurt
and cheese too. Doctors recommend kids ages one to three get 700 mg of calcium per day. Fat should account for less than
30 percent of your toddler's daily calories.
What to Feed My 29-Month-Old
Looking for some tasty and nutritious meal inspiration? Check out these food ideas for a 2-year-old:
•
Healthy Foods Your Toddler Will Love
•
15 Creative Meal Ideas for Toddlers
•
22 Easy, Tasty Kid's Lunch Ideas
•
Yum's the Word! 24 Healthy Snacks for Kids
29-Month-Old Feeding Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
Source:
HealthyChildren.org
29-Month-Old Eating Problems
Young kids tend to load up on sugar and fluids and may neglect the fats and proteins they need. This can result in a
condition called
toddler's diarrhea
, in which the child gets loose, watery stools—but isn't otherwise sick—for several days straight. Prevent this
condition by limiting your kid's juice intake and offering foods with plenty of fats, protein and fiber. Fresh fruits
and veggies are super important.
Activities for a 29-Month-Old
Your active 29-month-old just wants to have fun. Through play, he's learning every step of the way and developing their
motor skills and creativity.
What to do with a 29-month-old?
Fun activities, games and toys for a 29-month-old are:
•
Singing.
They love simple sing-along songs—and if the song has accompanying motions (think "Itsy Bitsy Spider"), all the better.
•
Dancing.
Play a few favorite kid-friendly songs from your playlist. Your 29-month-old probably digs a good dance party.
•
Outings.
Children's museums, zoos, kids' gyms, libraries, bookstores and aquariums are all fun places to take a 29-month-old.
•
Cook or bake together.
Your child can help with the safe parts, i.e. the ones that don't require knives and heat.
29-Month-Old Baby Checklist/Tips
• Beat frustration by teaching independence. Instead of telling your kid which puzzle piece goes where, help a little,
and make sure they're the one to place the last piece. That will give them the confidence to try again next time.
• Teaching your child to share can take a
long
time. It helps for parents to point out sharing, to do it themselves and to praise their child when they make an effort
to share too. For the next year or two, maybe hide those hard-to-share toys when your child has a friend over for a
playdate.
• Some 2-year-olds develop a fear of the water, which can make bathtime a challenge. It may ease your kiddo's anxiety to
stick to a really low water level, give them fun toys and bubbles, or even get in the tub with your kid. And when all
else fails, try a shower instead.
• If you haven't already, start browsing preschools to find a 3-year-old program that might be a good fit for your
child.30-Month-Old
Your toddler is 30 months—a.k.a. 2 ½ years—old!
Many pediatricians like to see kids around 30 months for a well-child visit. That’s because a lot of development occurs
between ages 2 and 3, and it's important to check things out at the midpoint. The doctor will probably ask how many
words your child says. She’ll ask about motor skills too and may even ask your child to demonstrate some of them, such
as walking and jumping. This could be a fun visit!
In this article:

30-Month-Old Development

30-Month-Old Sleep

30-Month-Old Food

Activities for a 30-Month-Old

30-Month-Old Baby Checklist/Tips
30-Month-Old Baby Development
The 30-month checkup is the place where growth and development are checked to be sure a child is making progress as
expected.
30-Month-Old Weight & Height
Average weight for a 30-month-old is around 28.8 pounds for girls and 29.9 pounds for boys. Average height is around
35.6 inches for girls and 36.0 inches for boys, according to the US Centers for Disease Control.
30-Month-Old Milestones
What should my 30-month-old be doing?
Here are some milestones your 30-month-old may have hit or may be working on:
•
Speech.
At 30 months old, speech development is happening fast. It's normal for a 30-month-old vocabulary to be around 100 to
250 words. Your child may also be using two- or three- word phrases. A 30-month-old not talking may need to have a
hearing evaluation and/or may need some help from an early intervention program. Discuss any concerns you may have about
your child's speech development with your pediatrician.
•
Motor skills.
Thirty-month-olds can usually walk up and down stairs, kick and throw a ball, jump and build towers of blocks.
•
Teething.
In a 30-month-old, teething may be happening. Also known as the
2-year molars
, second molars tend to erupt between 20 and 33 months. And since they're big, it can be a painful process. The good
news is they're the last teeth to come in until around age 6, when kids can better deal with the discomfort, so soon,
you'll be done with teething woes.
•
Potty Training.
Some 30-month-olds are fully potty trained and some aren’t ready to start yet. It all depends on your child's interest
level and abilities. To potty train a 30-month-old boy or girl, your child must be able to recognize when they have to
go to the bathroom and must be able to pull their pants up and down. A weekend at home without training pants could help
along the process; if it doesn't, that may mean your child just needs more time. Take a break before trying again later.
30-Month-Old Behavior
•
Tantrums.
At 30 months old, tantrums are still common. However, the peak time frame for tantrums tends to be between 17 and 24
months, so you might notice soon that their frequency is starting to decline. If your child has frequent tantrums
(several per day), discuss it with the pediatrician because some kids need extra help learning to calm themselves down.
•
DIY.
Your child can probably undress herself now; some 30-month-olds pull on their own pants and socks too.
•
Fickleness.
Your kiddo is torn between wanting to be a big kid and wanting to be a baby. So some days, he might do things on his own
and others, he insists you do it all. Some parents find that their 30-month-olds are well behaved at school or daycare
but wild at home. He may be anxious or shy around strangers too.
•
Regression.
It's normal for a 2-year-old to regress in some ways, such as starting to tantrum more or having more potty accidents.
Maybe your child asks for an old lovey or pacifier. This is often just a normal part of growing up, but tell the doctor
about any setbacks that concern you.
30-Month-Old Health
Bring up any health questions or concerns to the doctor at the 30-month checkup. Some common health questions parents of
30-month-olds have are:
• My 30-month-old has
diarrhea
. What should I do? • My 30-month-old is
constipated
. What should I do? • My 30-month-old is
throwing up
. What should I do? • My 30-month old has a
cough
. What should I do? • My 30-month-old has a
fever
. What should I do?
30-Month-Old Sleep
Sleep is super important for
any
kid – not just 30-month-olds. Kids needs sleep for growth and brain development and to keep their mood in check.
How Much Sleep Does a 30-Month-Old Need?
Most 2-year-olds need around 11 to 12 hours of nighttime sleep, plus a nap of about 1.5 to 3 hours, for a total of about
13 to 14 hours of sleep per day.
Every kid is different, but your child's schedule may look something like this:
30-Month-Old Sleep Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
30-Month-Old Sleep Problems
For a 30-month-old, sleep regression can happen. If your child was previously sleeping just fine at night but is
suddenly waking, it can disrupt the whole family's routine. Some kids become fearful of the dark and some just miss Mom
and Dad. If there isn't a health concern that's waking your kid, it's good to be firm about bedtime boundaries. Calm
your child down, put them back to bed and try to stick to the routine as much as you can.
Some kids around this age refuse to take a nap. And honestly, there's not much you can do about it. As the saying (kind
of) goes: You can lead a kid to a bed but you can't make them sleep. Continue to block out time each afternoon for a nap
or a rest. You can tell your child it's okay to look at books quietly in his room. For some children, this is enough to
bring on a nap. But others are
never
going back to daytime sleeping. If you find your kid really isn't napping anymore, it's okay to give up on it, and start
putting her to bed earlier at night.
30-Month-Old Food
While your kid might wish they could eat the same three foods all the time, continue to offer new flavors, textures and
styles of cooking. While they may not always
love
it, just getting him used to having new things on his plate may help him warm up the idea of trying out different
dishes.
How Much Should My 30-Month-Old Be Eating?
Two-year-olds should continue to eat three meals per day, plus two snacks. Offer a variety of foods in all food
groups—vegetables, fruits, grains, protein and dairy—daily. Portion size isn't big at this age: Expect your kid to eat
only ¼ to ½ as much as an adult.
Your 2-year-old should be drinking 1% or skim milk (not whole milk). Try to offer low-fat dairy products, such as yogurt
and cheese too. Doctors recommend kids ages one to three get 700 mg of calcium per day. Fat should account for less than
30 percent of your toddler's daily calories.
What to Feed My 30-Month-Old
Looking for some tasty and nutritious meal inspiration? Check out these food ideas for a 2-year-old:
•
Healthy Foods Your Toddler Will Love
•
15 Creative Meal Ideas for Toddlers
•
22 Easy, Tasty Kid's Lunch Ideas
•
Yum's the Word! 24 Healthy Snacks for Kids
30-Month-Old Feeding Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
Source:
HealthyChildren.org
30-Month-Old Eating Problems
Picky eating may still be a big food issue at 30 months. The checkup is the perfect time to bring up any worries you may
have about your child's eating habits. The doctor will weigh and measure your child to be sure they're growing at a
healthy rate and may check for an iron deficiency. Her findings may give you peace of mind that everything's A-okay, or
they may prompt her to prescribe a vitamin supplement. She may also give you advice on how to get your child to eat more
nutritious foods.
Activities for 30-Month-Old
In a 30-month-old's eyes, playtime is just fun—but it's also helping your child develop.
What to do with a 30-month-old?
Fun activities, games and toys for a 30-month-old are:
•
Puzzles.
Step back and let your child have a feeling of accomplishment by putting the pieces together on their own. Of course,
you can step in and help if they're getting frustrated.
•
Coloring.
Your child's dexterity is improving. They may even be able to draw some simple shapes.
•
Clay or Play-Doh.
Working with hands can help keep a wiggly toddler busy on a rainy day.
30-Month-Old Baby Checklist/Tips
• Take your toddler to their 2 ½-year (30-month) checkup.
• There aren't typically shots at this visit, but your child may get any vaccinations they didn't get at previous
appointments. The doctor may also do a blood test for iron-deficiency anemia and/or lead poisoning.
• Stop by the doctor’s office sometime when there aren’t vaccinations and blood tests. Or, after the shots, give your
child time to calm down and relax. They'll leave with positive thoughts about the place, making next time less tense.
• Schedule your child's
3-year checkup
.31-Month-Old
Your toddler is 31 months old!
Your child has a hard time staying in bed at night? Join the club! Plenty of activity during the day may help your child
to sleep more soundly at night. Naps are important too. Kids who don’t get enough sleep during the day are often
overtired at bedtime, which makes getting them to wind down harder (the irony!). At this age, one two-hour nap after
lunch usually does the trick. If your child is afraid of the dark (or monsters), you may have to get creative. Some
parents swear by Monster Spray, aka a squirt bottle filled with water you can use to "ward off invading monsters."
In this article:

31-Month-Old Development

31-Month-Old Sleep

31-Month-Old Food

Activities for a 31-Month-Old

31-Month-Old Baby Checklist/Tips
31-Month-Old Development
As with every age, 31-month-olds can vary quite a bit in size and development. The important thing, as always, is that
they're growing in an upward curve and not regressing (although temporary regressions can be normal too). Think about it
this way: Some kids focus on perfecting one milestone and then move on to the next. Others are working on a bunch of
different things at once, so their paces are different.
31-Month-Old Weight & Height
Average weight for a 31-month-old is around 29.1 pounds for girls and 30.2 pounds for boys. Average height is around
35.8 inches for girls and 36.2 inches for boys, according to the US Centers for Disease Control.
31-Month-Old Milestones
What should my 31-month-old be doing?
Here are some milestones your 31-month-old may have hit or may be working on:
•
Speech.
Your 31-month-old may be saying around 100 to 250 words. They may also be using two- or three-word phrases—though it'll
take them a while to use correct grammar. A 31-month-old not talking, or who isn't making improvements in speech, may
need to see a speech therapist for extra help.
•
Potty training.
31-month-olds vary in their potty skills. You might be in the throes of potty training—or your kid might have mastered
the art of staying dry all day long (woo-hoo!).
•
Teething.
Your 31-month-old child may be teething with their second molars. Also known as the
2-year molars
, these pearly whites tend to erupt between 20 and 33 months. And since they're big, it can be a painful process. The
good news is that they're the last teeth to come in until around age 6, when kids can better deal with the discomfort,
so soon, you'll be done with teething woes.
31-Month-Old Behavior
•
Saying no.
Two-and-a half-year-olds are notorious for saying no to just. About. Everything. Try not to pose questions with yes or
no answers. Instead, give your kid two choices you can deal with, and let him pick.
•
Attention seeking.
Tantrums, whining and screaming may stress you out, but some experts say the best way to deal with these undesirable
behaviors is to ignore them. Think about it this way: You're showing your child that their attention-seeking behavior
doesn't work.
•
Stress.
When your 31-month-old is stressed, you may notice a change in personality, regression (in things like potty training or
thumb- sucking), asking to go home, or just plain resistance. Step back and take some time to comfort your child. More
one-on-one time or less hectic days may help.
31-Month-Old Health
Health is always a top concern for parents, and this age is no different. Some common health questions parents of
31-month-olds have are:
• My 31-month-old has
diarrhea
. What should I do? • My 31-month-old is
constipated
. What should I do? • My 31-month-old is
throwing up
. What should I do? • My 31-month old has a
cough
. What should I do? • My 31-month-old has a
fever
. What should I do?
31-Month-Old Sleep
Bedtime with a 31-month-old can be a challenge. This is where sticking to a routine and setting certain boundaries (like
no getting out of bed except to use the potty) can help. It may seem like a struggle every single night—even when you're
doing everything right—but eventually your kid will get it and stop protesting so much. (It just might take
a while
.)
How Much Sleep Does a 31-Month-Old Need?
Most 2-year-olds need around 11 to 12 hours of nighttime sleep, plus a nap of about 1.5 to 3 hours, for a total of about
13 to 14 hours of sleep per day.
Every kid is different, but your child's schedule may look something like this:
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
31-Month-Old Sleep Problems
Switching from a crib to a big-kid bed may mean you have an occasional middle-of-the-night visitor. If you want to
prevent night waking from becoming a habit, keep leading your child back to his own bed and tucking him in. Eventually,
they'll understand the boundaries.
31-Month-Old Food
At 31 months, some might assume you'd have a firm grasp of your child's likes and dislikes. But honestly, they're still
figuring it out themself. So it's totally normal for her to ask for seconds of broccoli one day and then refuse to eat
it the next. Just keep offering the healthy stuff and try not to push them into eating it.
How Much Should My 31-Month-Old Be Eating?
Two-year-olds should continue to eat three meals per day, plus two snacks. Offer a variety of foods in all food
groups—vegetables, fruits, grains, protein and dairy—daily. Portion size isn't big at this age: Expect your kid to eat
only ¼ to ½ as much as an adult.
Your 2-year-old should be drinking 1 percent or skim milk (not whole milk). Try to offer low-fat dairy products, such as
yogurt and cheese too. Doctors recommend kids ages one to three get 700 mg of calcium per day. Fat should account for
less than 30 percent of your toddler's daily calories.
What to Feed My 31-Month-Old
Looking for some tasty and nutritious meal inspiration? Check out these food ideas for a 2-year-old:
•
Healthy Foods Your Toddler Will Love
•
15 Creative Meal Ideas for Toddlers
•
22 Easy, Tasty Kid's Lunch Ideas
•
Yum's the Word! 24 Healthy Snacks for Kids
31-Month-Old Feeding Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
Source:
HealthyChildren.org
31-Month-Old Eating Problems
If it were up to a 31-month-old, they'd probably overdo it with the juice. It's true fruit juices offer some of the
vitamins and minerals of fruit, but too much juice can cause unhealthy weight gain and also malnourishment. That's
because juice can have a lot of calories but not a lot of nutrition (read: sugar).
Limit your child to 4 ounces or less of juice each day. Stick with 100 percent juice and look for fruit-and-veggie blend
juices. Some parents like to mix half a cup of juice with half a cup of water to prevent going overboard.
Activities for 31-Month-Old
When they're not being super stubborn, 31-month-olds can be wonderful playmates. Take some time to play together.
What to do with a 31-month-old?
Fun activities, games and toys for a 31-month-old are:
•
Pretend play.
Your 31-month-old may be obsessed with dolls or stuffed animals. Don’t prevent them from pretending—play along! You’ll
honor her creativity.
•
Roll a ball.
A simple game of roll-the-ball on the floor is fun for a 31-month-old and a great bonding activity. If they're getting
good at the game, you can work your way up to a full-fledged game of catch.
•
Indoor parade.
Rainy day? Put on a parade! Play some music and march along. Then get creative, taking turns copying each other's
backward steps, skips, and jumps.
31-Month-Old Baby Checklist/Tips
• Your 31-month-old still thrives on routine, so keep nap and mealtimes as consistent as you can from day to day.
• Need to change your child’s bedtime? Start early and adjust it gradually—by increments of around 10 minutes each
day—to get them to adapt more easily.
• Continue to teach and enforce good habits, such as handwashing and toothbrushing.32-Month-Old
Your toddler is 32 months old!
This may be the moment you’ve been waiting for, or maybe it’s the one you’re dreading: Potty training. Most kids are
ready to begin toilet training sometime between the ages of 2 and 3. If your child can stay dry for a couple of hours,
lets you know when their diaper is wet or soiled, or shows an interest in using the potty, they're probably ready. Keep
the motivation positive and pressure-free. Kids this age learn best by example, so take him into the bathroom with you
when you go (if you feel comfortable with that). Even better? Point out older friends or siblings who use the potty, and
talk it up!
In this article:

32-Month-Old Development

32-Month-Old Sleep

32-Month-Old Food

Activities for a 32-Month-Old

32-Month-Old Baby Checklist/Tips
32-Month-Old Development
In addition to potty training, there are a bunch of other milestones and skills your growing child is working on this
month.
32-Month-Old Weight & Height
Average weight for a 32-month old is around 29.4 pounds for girls and 30.5 pounds for boys. Average height is around
36.1 inches for girls and 36.5 inches for boys, according to the US Centers for Disease Control.
32-Month-Old Milestones
What should my 32-month-old be doing?
Here are some milestones your 32-month-old may have hit or may be working on:
•
Speech.
Thirty-two-month-old speech development is happening fast. Your child may be using pronouns correctly and understands
how to follow directions with multiple steps.
•
Motor skills.
Kids this age are getting good at walking up and down stairs. Your child may be able to draw a shape or two, put
together a simple puzzle, jump, and pedal a trike.
•
Teething.
You may be experiencing your kid's last bout of teething, with the
2-year molars
making their appearance around this age.
•
Potty training.
If you haven't started potty training your 32-month-old, now might be the time. In a study, researchers found that the
number one factor that affected potty training success was starting between
27 and 32 months
(aka now). Obviously, every kid is different, but kids older than yours tend to be more resistant to the process.
32-Month-Old Behavior
•
Bad manners.
Sharing and being polite might still be tough for a kid this age, but keep using “please” and “thank you” in
conversation, and talking up the concept of sharing. Be patient—they'll get it in time.
•
Friendship.
A 32-month-old tends to be really interested in other kids, and may have started making friends.
•
Shyness.
Feeling intimidated or sensitive in social situations is normal in a 2-year-old. For some kids, it's simply part of
their personality. Even if you're a social butterfly, show your shy child empathy, and help him get accustomed to
unfamiliar environments. And you may want to avoid labeling your kid as "shy." It's something they may simply outgrow,
and you don't want to make them start to believe it.
32-Month-Old Health
Health is always a top concern for parents, and this age is no different. Some common health questions parents of
32-month-olds have are:
• My 32-month-old has
diarrhea
. What should I do? • My 32-month-old is
constipated
. What should I do? • My 32-month-old is
throwing up
. What should I do? • My 32-month old has a
cough
. What should I do? • My 32-month-old has a
fever
. What should I do?
32-Month-Old Sleep
To nap or not to nap? Most 32-month-olds still need an afternoon nap to help them get through the day. Just make sure
it's early enough and short enough that it doesn't interfere with their ability to get sleepy at bedtime.
How Much Sleep Does a 32-Month-Old Need?
Most 2-year-olds need around 11 to 12 hours of nighttime sleep, plus a nap of about 1.5 to 3 hours, for a total of about
13 to 14 hours of sleep per day.
Every kid is different, but your child's schedule may look something like this:
32-Month-Old Sleep Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
32-Month-Old Sleep Problems
Some 32-month-olds resist nap time, but if your kid still gets grumpy if they don't get daytime rest, he still needs it.
Enforce nap time at the same time every afternoon. If your kid refuses to sleep, you might want to tell them they don't
have
to, but they do need to stay in their room for a short period of quiet time. Some parents find their kid falls asleep
anyhow. Others are just happy to give their tot a short break during the day.
32-Month-Old Food
Calcium, iron and fiber are a few nutrients toddlers tend not to get enough of. Experiment with different foods that
deliver them—such as broccoli, spinach, dark meat turkey, raisins and pinto beans—to see which your child enjoys.
How Much Should My 32-Month-Old Be Eating?
Two-year-olds should continue to eat three meals per day, plus two snacks. Offer a variety of foods in all food
groups—vegetables, fruits, grains, protein and dairy—daily. Portion size isn't big at this age: Expect your kid to eat
only ¼ to ½ as much as an adult.
Your 2-year-old should be drinking 1 percent or skim milk (not whole milk). Try to offer low-fat dairy products, such as
yogurt and cheese too. Doctors recommend kids ages 1 to 3 get 700 mg of calcium per day. Fat should account for less
than 30 percent of your toddler's daily calories.
What to Feed My 32-Month-Old
Looking for some tasty and nutritious meal inspiration? Check out these food ideas for a 2-year-old:
•
Healthy Foods Your Toddler Will Love
•
15 Creative Meal Ideas for Toddlers
•
22 Easy, Tasty Kid's Lunch Ideas
•
Yum's the Word! 24 Healthy Snacks for Kids
32-Month-Old Feeding Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
Source:
HealthyChildren.org
32-Month-Old Eating Problems
Can a 2-year-old have an eating disorder? Yes, it's possible! While picky eating is typical for this age, there are a
few behaviors that fall into the category of a feeding disorder. For a variety of reasons—food aversions or refusing to
eat, for example—these kids may not eat enough to gain weight at a healthy rate or may even lose weight.
Feeding disorders are common among kids who have developmental delays, but can happen with any child. If you suspect
your child has a feeding disorder, get an evaluation from your pediatrician. She may refer your child to a dietician, a
psychiatrist or psychologist, a speech language pathologist, an occupational therapist or all of the above.
Activities for a 32-Month-Old
For a 32-month-old, playtime equals learning time, so make sure your child has plenty of opportunities to use their
imagination and motor skills (away from the tablet or TV screen).
What to do with a 32-month-old?
Fun activities, games and toys for a 32-month-old are:
•
Rhyming.
Choose books that rhyme, or sing songs and say nursery rhymes and poems together. This helps your child increase their
vocabulary and learn rhythm. Not to mention, they're a lot of fun!
•
Pretend play.
Thirty-two-month-olds tend to love to dress up in costumes, or mimic Mom and Dad by talking into a play phone, wearing
your shoes, or sweeping the floor.
•
Free play.
Structured activities, like a trip to the playground or the aquarium, are certainly fun, but don't feel like your
32-month-old needs to be scheduled every second. Set aside time where your child can bang on pots and pans with wooden
spoons, "camp" in a cardboard box, or race their toy cars across the living room floor—whatever it is they want to do.
32-Month-Old Baby Checklist/Tips
• Believe us, you do
not
want to flush standard baby wipes (unless you really like plunging your toilet). Instead, get your potty-training kid's
bum clean with a wipe that clearly says “flushable” on the label.
• A hectic schedule isn't good for your 32-month-old, and it isn't good for you either. Make "me time" to decompress and
have still have quality time with your family by saying "no" to unnecessary pastimes or activities. And consider hiring
a sitter here and there to avoid burnout.33-Month-Old
Your toddler is 33 months old!
Say cheese! By 33 months, most children have their full set of baby teeth, which means if your child hasn’t seen a
dentist yet, now’s a good time to schedule an appointment. In the meantime, help her take care of her teeth. She might
want to brush on her own, but she’s not coordinated enough to do it right, so make sure you get a chance to scrub each
tooth surface for her after she takes a turn.
In this article:

33-Month-Old Development

33-Month-Old Sleep

33-Month-Old Food

Activities for a 33-Month-Old

33-Month-Old Baby Checklist/Tips
33-Month-Old Development
As your 33-month-old grows, he's also becoming more and more independent.
33-Month-Old Weight & Height
Average weight for a 33-month-old is around 29.7 pounds for girls and 30.8 pounds for boys. Average height is around
36.4 inches for girls and 36.8 inches for boys, according to the US Centers for Disease Control.
33-Month-Old Milestones
What should my 33-month-old be doing?
Here are some milestones your 33-month-old may have hit or may be working on:
•
Speech.
Thirty-three-month-old language development seems to happen quickly. Kids this old may know around 450 words, and by the
time they turn three will be saying three- and four-word sentences.
•
Self-Care.
Over the next few months, your child will probably develop the ability to undress and feed herself.
•
Teething.
As your child cuts his last baby teeth—the
second molars
—he may experience a little pain and drooling and may wake at night or be irritable.
•
Potty training.
You may be in full swing of potty training. If your kid is wearing underwear but isn't 100 percent making it to the
toilet just yet, going
anywhere
can feel stressful. Try not to plan long outings for now, and always bring along wipes and a change of clothes just in
case.
33-Month-Old Behavior
•
Imaginary friends.
Having an imaginary friend is not cause for concern. In fact, having a friend of her own invention helps a child make
sense of the world. You can play along, but be careful not to take over your child's pretending.
•
Refusing to listen.
Told your 33-month-old not to do that thing? A million times? If he's doing it anyway, he's just displaying typical
2-year-old behavior. Make the rules and consequences clear (and fitting—a 2-year-old won't understand being grounded for
a week, but he will understand a two-minute time-out), and follow through when he breaks them. It's a long road, but
eventually the rules will stick.
33-Month-Old Health
Health is always a top concern for parents, and this age is no different. Some common health questions parents of
33-month-olds have are:
• My 33-month-old has
diarrhea
. What should I do? • My 33-month-old is
constipated
. What should I do? • My 33-month-old is
throwing up
. What should I do? • My 33-month old has a
cough
. What should I do? • My 33-month-old has a
fever
. What should I do?
33-Month-Old Sleep
Why is it that parents
love
to sleep but our kids, who need more of it, seem to hate it? Even if your kid resists, a good night's sleep (and a good
nap) are essential for her brain and body.
How Much Sleep Does a 33-Month-Old Need?
Most 2-year-olds need around 11 to 12 hours of nighttime sleep, plus a nap of about 1.5 to 3 hours, for a total of about
13 to 14 hours of sleep per day.
Every kid is different, but your child's schedule may look something like this:
33-Month-Old Sleep Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
33-Month-Old Sleep Problems
It's common for a 33-month-old to have developed a fear of the dark. Experts advise listening to your child express his
fear with empathy and then helping him feel safer. If that means an extra night-light or telling him his stuffed T. rex
will protect him, so be it.
33-Month-Old Food
Your 33-month-old's appetite may go through ups and downs. Some days she's a little vacuum and others, she barely
touches her meals. That's okay, as long as the doctor says her growth, weight gain and development are on track. Think
of her overall nutrition over the course of a week, not just by the day.
How Much Should My 33-Month-Old Be Eating?
Two-year-olds should continue to eat three meals per day, plus two snacks. Offer him a variety of foods in all food
groups—vegetables, fruits, grains, protein and dairy—daily. Portion size isn't big at this age: Expect your kid to eat
only ¼ to ½ as much as an adult.
Your 2-year-old should be drinking 1 percent or skim milk (not whole milk). Try to offer low-fat dairy products, such as
yogurt and cheese too. Doctors recommend kids ages 1 to 3 get 700 mg of calcium per day. Fat should account for less
than 30 percent of your toddler's daily calories.
What to Feed My 33-Month-Old
Looking for some tasty and nutritious meal inspiration? Check out these food ideas for a 2-year-old:
•
Healthy Foods Your Toddler Will Love
•
15 Creative Meal Ideas for Toddlers
•
22 Easy, Tasty Kid's Lunch Ideas
•
Yum's the Word! 24 Healthy Snacks for Kids
33-Month-Old Feeding Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
Source:
HealthyChildren.org
33-Month-Old Eating Problems
Picky eating can sometimes be remedied with a little creative presentation. Consider cutting sandwiches into cool shapes
using a cookie cutter, making funny faces or fun scenes with vegetables, or creating fruit-and-veggie smoothies or ice
pops for your child. When they look like playthings, healthy foods might seem more appealing.
Activities for a 33-Month-Old
As your child gets older, her play may become more imaginative, and you may notice she's mature enough for more complex
toys and activities.
What to do with a 33-month-old?
Fun activities, games and toys for a 33-month-old are:
•
Counting games and songs.
By 33 months, your child probably already has a basic understanding of numbers, but it’s going to take some time for him
to master counting. So count everything you can together.
•
Board games.
Simple, introductory games like Candy Land, Chutes and Ladders and Memory are good for this age.
•
Interlocking building blocks.
If she hasn't already, your child is probably ready to graduate from simple wooden blocks to Duplos or Mega Bloks.
•
Collage making.
Looking for rainy day fun? Have your child point out his favorite photos in a few old magazines. Cut them out for him
and, together, glue them on paper to create a collage.
33-Month-Old Baby Checklist/Tips
• Convincing your toddler to wear—or keep on—a pair of sunglasses may be a struggle. Instead, buy her a wide-brimmed hat
(with a chin strap!) that's more likely to stay in place on sunny days.
• It's okay if your potty-trained child still wears a diaper or nighttime underwear to bed. Some kids learn quickly to
stay dry during the night. Others take years to develop the physical readiness to recognize when they have to go during
their sleep.34-Month-Old
Your toddler is 34 months old!
Are you planning to send your child to school? The best 3-year-old preschools focus on play and socialization; kids
learn by exploring and interacting. They also gradually learn how to wait their turn, stand in line and follow
rules—essential skills that will help throughout her school career. But it’s not a necessity to enroll your kid yet if
you don’t feel she's ready. You know best whether or not she is.
In this article:

34-Month-Old Development

34-Month-Old Sleep

34-Month-Old Food

Activities for a 34-Month-Old

34-Month-Old Baby Checklist/Tips
34-Month-Old Development
You'll probably notice your 34-month-old is getting taller and looks less chubby as he nears his third birthday.
34-Month-Old Weight & Height
Average weight for a 34-month-old is around 30.1 pounds for girls and 31.1 pounds for boys. Average height is around
36.6 inches for girls and 37.0 inches for boys, according to the US Centers for Disease Control.
34-Month-Old Milestones
What should my 34-month-old be doing?
Here are some milestones your 34-month-old may have hit or may be working on:
•
Speech.
By now, strangers should be able to understand most of the words your child says, which probably totals somewhere
between 200 and 450. Your child should be able to follow three- or four-step directions.
•
Motor skills.
Around age 3, most kids can walk up and down stairs, jump, do simple puzzles, and pedal a tricycle.
•
Self-care.
Your child is working on learning to undress and feed herself.
•
Potty training.
Some 34-month-olds are fully potty trained and some won't be ready until they're 3 or 4. If yours is still wearing
training pants, there's no need to rush it. Every kid learns at his own pace. But talking up the potty in a positive way
and reading children's books about potty training certainly could help.
34-Month-Old Behavior
•
Bossiness.
Got a little tyrant at home? Your 34-month-old thinks the world revolves around her—you can't change that just yet. But
you can teach her to speak kindly, say please, and to not order everyone around.
•
Short attention span.
Don't worry too much about ADHD at this age. Two-year-olds are normally easily distractible and want to follow their own
agenda.
•
Sense of humor.
Your little one is learning what's funny and what's not, making just about every task a little more entertaining for
everyone. Let yourself get a little silly at times too.
34-Month-Old Health
Health is always a top concern for parents, and this age is no different. Some common health questions parents of
34-month-olds have are:
• My 34-month-old has
diarrhea
. What should I do? • My 34-month-old is
constipated
. What should I do? • My 34-month-old is
throwing up
. What should I do? • My 34-month old has a
cough
. What should I do? • My 34-month-old has a
fever
. What should I do?
34-Month-Old Sleep
Thirty-four-month-olds sure need a lot of sleep, but that doesn't mean they actually want to go to bed.
How Much Sleep Does a 34-Month-Old Need?
Most 2-year-olds need around 11 to 12 hours of nighttime sleep, plus a nap of about 1.5 to 3 hours, for a total of about
13 to 14 hours of sleep per day.
Every kid is different, but your child's schedule may look something like this:
34-Month-Old Sleep Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
34-Month-Old Food
Feeding your child a well-rounded diet full of many nutrients will help fuel your 34-month-old's growth and brain and
physical development.
How Much Should My 34-Month-Old Be Eating?
Two-year-olds should continue to eat three meals per day, plus two snacks. Offer him a variety of foods in all food
groups—vegetables, fruits, grains, protein and dairy—daily. Portion size isn't big at this age: Expect your kid to eat
only ¼ to ½ as much as an adult.
Your 2-year-old should be drinking 1 percent or skim milk (not whole milk). Try to offer low-fat dairy products, such as
yogurt and cheese too. Doctors recommend kids ages 1 to 3 get 700 mg of calcium per day. Fat should account for less
than 30 percent of your toddler's daily calories.
What to Feed My 34-Month-Old
Looking for some tasty and nutritious meal inspiration? Check out these food ideas for a 2-year-old:
•
Healthy Foods Your Toddler Will Love
•
15 Creative Meal Ideas for Toddlers
•
22 Easy, Tasty Kid's Lunch Ideas
•
Yum's the Word! 24 Healthy Snacks for Kids
34-Month-Old Feeding Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
Source:
HealthyChildren.org
34-Month-Old Eating Problems
It's common for kids this age to overdo it with milk and juice. Because of the calories in these drinks, having too many
of them could put a child at risk for obesity. Experts recommend 16 ounces of milk per day and 4 ounces or less of juice
per day. And skip the soda.
Activities for a 34-Month-Old
It's good for a 34-month-old to have a mix of solo play, play with a parent, and play with someone her own age.
What to do with a 34-month-old?
Fun activities, games and toys for a 34-month-old are:
•
Drawing.
Show your 34-month-old how to draw a circle and see if he can do it. Once he's mastered that skill, you can draw faces
together and move on to other shapes too.
•
Puzzles.
It's a fun challenge for a 34-month-old to put together simple puzzles.
•
Play dates.
As your child becomes more interested in making friends and playing with kids her own age, you'll want to give her
opportunities to do that. Kids this age still need help and practice in sharing and taking turns.
34-Month-Old Baby Checklist/Tips
• Change in routine? Give plenty of advance warning. And be prepared to repeat, “You’re right. Usually we do it that
way, but today we’re going to do it this way,” at least two or three
dozen
times.
• Your child's screen time should still be limited. Your child learns better through hands-on play, and you simply don't
want your kid to get into the bad habit of too much TV or tablet. Encourage old-school play as much as possible, with
small spurts of screen time.35-Month-Old
Your toddler is 35 months old!
Don’t freak out if you catch your child lying—it doesn't mean she's destined for a life of crime. A child’s first lie is
actually a significant developmental milestone. To lie, a child needs good verbal skills, plus enough imagination to be
able to invent an alternate reality. She probably gets that telling the truth would disappoint someone, which shows an
understanding of expectations and emotions. So instead of punishing your child for lying, try gently confronting her
with the truth. (“I see cookie crumbs on your face,” for instance.) Talk briefly about the importance of telling the
truth, but don’t lecture her too much.
In this article:

35-Month-Old Development

35-Month-Old Sleep

35-Month-Old Food

Activities for a 35-Month-Old

35-Month-Old Baby Checklist/Tips
35-Month-Old Development
Your growing 35-month-old is mastering lots of new skills and getting more independent by the minute.
35-Month-Old Weight & Height
Average weight for a 35-month-old is around 30.4 pounds for girls and 31.4 pounds for boys. Average height is around
36.9 inches for girls and 37.3 inches for boys, according to the US Centers for Disease Control.
35-Month-Old Milestones
What should my 35-month-old be doing?
Here are some milestones your 35-month-old may have hit or may be working on:
•
Speech.
Your child probably says hundreds of words and speaks more clearly than ever before. He's starting to grasp the
different pronouns (he, she, we, it, etc.) What a little smarty-pants!
•
Motor skills.
Your 35-month-old child can probably put on at least one piece of clothing, stand on one foot and draw a straight(ish)
line. She may now have the coordination required to pedal a tricycle— if not, she might scoot along with her feet on the
ground. She'll get it with practice.
•
Potty training.
When it comes to potty training, 35-month-olds are a mixed bag. Some are trained, some are in the process, and some
aren't quite ready yet. If your child is resisting the potty, hold the urge to put on the pressure. While you may be in
a hurry to ditch the diapers, pressing could actually cause more harm than good. It may benefit everyone to put a pause
on potty training for a few weeks before trying again.
35-Month-Old Behavior
•
Independence.
You may be able to (finally!) convince your child to play on his own for short stretches, which could feel a bit freeing
for you.
•
Playing favorites.
Your child may be acting as if she likes you better than daddy or vice versa. Don’t get offended—it's just a phase, and
the roles will reverse at some point.
35-Month-Old Health
Health is always a top concern for parents, and this age is no different. Some common health questions parents of
35-month-olds have are:
• My 35-month-old has
diarrhea
. What should I do? • My 35-month-old is
constipated
. What should I do? • My 35-month-old is
throwing up
. What should I do? • My 35-month old has a
cough
. What should I do? • My 35-month-old has a
fever
. What should I do?
35-Month-Old Sleep
You may notice your 35-month-old is starting to sleep a little less during his daytime nap. That's totally normal. Most
kids this age do still need a nap, but may be gradually and naturally weaning themselves off them.
How Much Sleep Does a 35-Month-Old Need?
Most 2-year-olds need around 11 to 12 hours of nighttime sleep, plus a nap of about 1.5 to 3 hours, for a total of about
13 to 14 hours of sleep per day.
Every kid is different, but your child's schedule may look something like this:
35-Month-Old Sleep Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
35-Month-Old Sleep Problems
It's common for 35-month-olds to try to put off bedtime as long as possible. While it's sometimes adorable that your
child wants you to read five more stories and give you 10 more kisses, it's also exhausting. To avoid letting it get out
of control, stay calm and remind her of the bedtime routine. Set limits on just how many times you come back to her
bedroom and how many extra little things you'll do for her before she finally goes to sleep.
35-Month-Old Food
The biggest things to remember when feeding your 35-month-old is that he's probably the best judge of his appetite and
that he needs to eat a variety of healthy foods, just like you do. Salty and sugary snacks should be saved for special
occasions.
How Much Should My 35-Month-Old Be Eating?
Two-year-olds should continue to eat three meals per day, plus two snacks. Offer her a variety of foods in all food
groups—vegetables, fruits, grains, protein and dairy—daily. Portion size isn't big at this age: Expect your kid to eat
only ¼ to ½ as much as an adult.
Your 2-year-old should be drinking 1 percent or skim milk (not whole milk). Try to offer low-fat dairy products, such as
yogurt and cheese too. Doctors recommend kids ages 1 to 3 get 700 mg of calcium per day. Fat should account for less
than 30 percent of your toddler's daily calories.
What to Feed My 35-Month-Old
Looking for some tasty and nutritious meal inspiration? Check out these food ideas for a 2-year-old:
•
Healthy Foods Your Toddler Will Love
•
15 Creative Meal Ideas for Toddlers
•
22 Easy, Tasty Kid's Lunch Ideas
•
Yum's the Word! 24 Healthy Snacks for Kids
35-Month-Old Feeding Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
Source:
HealthyChildren.org
35-Month-Old Eating Problems
Mealtime with a 35-month-old can easily become a power struggle—don't let it! Offer nutritious food, and keep serving
small amounts of new foods. But don't force your child to eat or expect him to love anything you give him. Even if he
was crazy about it yesterday. And remember, it can take up to 20 instances of exposure to a food before a child develops
a liking for it.
Activities for a 35-Month-Old
Give your 35-month-old plenty of time to play freely and to play outside. Play helps her learn and keeps her body active
and healthy.
What to do with a 35-month-old?
Fun activities, games and toys for a 35-month-old are:
•
Tricycle.
Your 35-month-old will soon be developmentally ready to master pedaling, if he isn't already. And yes, it's important he
wear a helmet while riding, even though he seems so close to the ground.
•
Collecting.
Kids this age love to collect acorns, pine cones, rocks, action figures…you name it. This is a fun activity to do
together and can help her learn about the world around her and practice sorting and organization. If it's something
low-cost or free, even better!
•
Pretend play.
Playing house, school, grocery store or kitchen helps 35-month-olds understand different roles and can help them develop
emotionally.
35-Month-Old Baby Checklist/Tips
• Handle weird phases (like barking like a dog!) like they’re no big deal, so long as they don’t interfere with normal
activities. Just explain that it’s a thing he can do at some times, but can’t at others. And get it on video, of course.
• Going to the grocery store or a Target run with your 35-month-old can be an ordeal. She wants every cool-looking thing
she sees! And as much as you want to make her happy, saying no can set the precedent that she won't get everything she
whines or begs for.
• Remember: Next month is your child's
3-year-checkup
. Call the doctor and make an appointment if you didn't at your last visit.36-Month-Old
Wow, your child is 3! Three-year-olds want to know how everything works, and aren’t afraid to ask questions. That
doesn't mean you need to have all the answers, though. You and your child can have a lot of fun simply pondering and
exploring his curiosities together. So when your child asks something like, “Why is the sky blue?” try saying, “I don’t
know. What do you think?” before launching into a scientific explanation. If he's asking lots of questions about a
specific topic and you don't know the answers, head to the library and find a children's book about it that you can read
together.
In this article:

36-Month-Old Development

36-Month-Old Sleep

36-Month-Old Food

Activities for a 36-Month-Old

36-Month-Old Baby Checklist/Tips
3-Year-Old Development
Age 3 is time for a thorough checkup with the pediatrician to make sure your child's growth and development are on
track.
3-Year-Old Weight & Height
Average weight for a 36-month-old is around 30.7 pounds for girls and 31.8 pounds for boys. Average height is around
37.1 inches for girls and 37.5 inches for boys, according to the US Centers for Disease Control.
At your child's checkup, the doctor will plot her weight and height on a 3-year-old growth chart. The chart shows a
child's measurements at each visit, as well as a curve of average growth for each weight and height percentile. This
will help the doctor confirm your child is growing at a healthy rate.
3-Year-Old Milestones
What should my 36-month-old be doing?
Here are some milestones your 3-year-old may have hit or may be working on:
•
Speech.
Most likely, your 3-year-old is talking like crazy. He's probably using three- or even four-word sentences (“Go outside
now!”) and uses a variety of words. In fact, it's normal for a 3-year-old to have a vocabulary of about 500 words. (And
why might just be his favorite.) If your 3-year-old is stuttering, mispronounces words, or is using improper grammar,
it's probably not cause for concern. He's still learning proper speech. Still, you should bring up any worries to the
doctor, so she can keep tabs.
•
Motor skills.
Your 3-year-old should be climbing and running with ease. She can probably walk up and down stairs one foot per step.
•
Potty training.
Potty training a 3-year-old is quite an accomplishment. You might find that even if your kid stays dry during the day,
nighttime is a different story. Bed-wetting is not a concern at this age. In fact, some kids continue to wet the bed up
to age 7. That's what they make nighttime training pants for.
•
Teething.
For your 3-year-old, molars should have emerged in the past year, and now your child has all the teeth he'll have until
age 6 or 7, when the first permanent molars cut through.
Worried your child's development isn't on track? The US Centers for Disease Control publishes a
36-month-old developmental checklist
you can go over to see if your child is on par with her peers. At the three-year checkup, the pediatrician should ask
you a series of questions that will help determine whether your child might be delayed or need a little extra help
developmentally. This is where you can bring up any concerns you may have, such as signs of ADHD or autism in a
3-year-old.
3-Year-Old Behavior
•
Meltdowns and tantrums.
A 3-year-old may have a good idea of what she wants to do—like build a giant block tower—but doesn’t always have the
physical skills or ability to make it turn out as well as she’d hoped. That may mean frustration and tears. Sure, you're
officially out of the terrible twos, but you're not quite out of tantrum territory yet.
•
Separation anxiety.
A 3-year-old with separation anxiety may turn drop-offs at Grandma's house or at school into a whole lot of drama. Sure,
she may be making you feel guilty, but she'll never get over it if you keep her close at all times. Keep goodbyes short
and sweet. Remind your child what time you'll be back and what you'll do together. And try not to linger before you go.
•
Other 3-year-old behavioral problems.
In an informal poll, most parents we talked to said age 3 was more terrible than 2. It's not surprising to hear of a
3-year-old biting, running away from his parents in public, and otherwise breaking the rules we thought they'd get by
now. How to get a 3-year-old to listen? Remember: It's all a process. Disciplining a 3-year-old doesn't mean getting
angry; it means setting clear rules and age-appropriate punishments. It will take a lot of repetition and time for your
child to finally start behaving, but after her tenth time-out for trying to hit her brother, we're pretty sure it will
eventually sink in.
3-Year-Old Health
Health is always a top concern for parents, and this age is no different. Some common health questions parents of
36-month-olds have are:
• My 3-year-old has
diarrhea
. What should I do? • My 3-year-old is
constipated
. What should I do? • My 3-year-old is
throwing up
. What should I do? • My 3-year-old has a
cough
. What should I do? • My 3-year-old has a
fever
. What should I do?
3-Year-Old Sleep
Bedtime for a 3-year-old might be a struggle. Stick to the routine—and stick to your guns. When you say “One more song,”
really just sing one more song and say goodnight.
How Much Sleep Does a 3-Year-Old Need?
Most 3-year-olds need around 10 to 13 hours of sleep total, including both daytime and nighttime sleep. At this age,
some kids are still napping for an hour or two in the afternoon and others are willfully ditching naps altogether. So
adjust your child's schedule accordingly. For example, if he's not napping, move his bedtime a little earlier. And if he
is
napping, don't let him snooze so long or so late in the afternoon that it interferes with his ability to fall asleep at
night.
Every kid is different, but your child's schedule may look something like this:
36-Month-Old Sleep Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
3-Year-Old Sleep Problems
Sleep regression is common at this age. For a 3-year-old waking up at night, experts recommend short and businesslike
visits. In other words, comfort her if she's had a bad dream or bring her water if she's thirsty, but don't linger long.
Kiss her goodnight and exit the room. If your 3-year-old won't stay in bed, experts say you should always lead her back
to her own bed if you want her to break the habit.
At 3 years old, night terrors can wreak havoc on families' nights. But remember: These episodes are more upsetting to
you than they are to a child. During a night terror, a child may begin crying, screaming, sitting up, walking or
flailing. He may seem to talk but he's not awake, and he doesn't remember it happening the next day. This happens as
kids transition from a deep sleep phase to a lighter one. If your child gets night terrors, don't try to wake him, just
keep him safe, try to calm him, and put him back to bed. He'll eventually grow out of them.
3-Year-Old Food
Ideal nutrition for a 3-year-old is pretty similar to ideal nutrition for the rest of the family, just in smaller
portions.
How Much Should My 3-Year-Old Be Eating?
Three-year-olds should continue to eat three meals per day, plus two snacks. Offer her a variety of foods in all food
groups—vegetables, fruits, grains, protein and dairy—daily. Focus on foods with high nutritional value and try to avoid
junk foods and sugary drinks as much as possible.
How many calories does a 3-year-old need?
Doctors recommend about 1,000 calories per day for 2- and 3-year-olds, but you shouldn't have to count. Your child is a
good judge of his own appetite, and during times of extra exercise or a growth spurt, he may be hungrier and need more
calories than at other times.
Instead, consider that your child should be having approximately 1 cup of fruit, 1 cup of vegetables, 3 ounces of
grains, 2 ounces of protein and about 2 cups of dairy each day.
How much milk should a 3-year-old drink?
If she's not getting dairy elsewhere in her diet, make it two cups. But if she's eating lots of yogurt and cheese, for
example, or if you're breastfeeding your 3-year-old, she may need to drink less milk. Talk to the pediatrician for a
personalized recommendation.
What to Feed My 36-Month-Old
Looking for some tasty and nutritious meal inspiration? Check out these food ideas for a 3-year-old:
•
22 Easy, Tasty Kids’ Lunch Ideas
•
Yum's the Word! 24 Healthy Snacks for Kids
•
15 Creative Meal Ideas for Toddlers
•
5 Easy Weeknight Meals for Busy Moms
36-Month-Old Feeding Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
Source:
HealthyChildren.org
Activities for 3-Year-Olds
As your 3-year-old gets more and more creative and expressive, he's also learning some important facts that will help
him get ready for school.
What to do with a 3-year-old?
Fun activities, games and educational toys for 3-year-olds are:
•
Colorful toys.
Your child is learning her colors. Play together with colored blocks, balls or Play-Doh, and talk about the different
colors. You can sort the blocks or balls by color too.
•
Crayons and nontoxic paints.
Your little Picasso is probably starting to take pride in creating some pretty artwork. Remember to hang a few faves on
the fridge or corkboard.
•
Songs.
Keep singing simple songs with your kid. Three-year-olds love singing almost as much as they love to talk.
3-Year-Old Baby Checklist/Tips
• Take your child to his
3-year checkup
.
• For a 3-year-old, shots aren't typically necessary, but you may choose to have your child get the flu vaccine at this
appointment.
• Plan to take your child for her next checkup around her fourth birthday. For the rest of her childhood, well visits
should happen annually.
• If you'd like your child to start school this year, sign him up for 3-year-old preschool, if you haven't already.
• Take a trip to the library for some new books with a fresh perspective—and that answer some of your 3-year-old’s most
probing questions.
• It's rare (but not totally impossible) to find a 3-year-old reading. Still, you may notice this year your child starts
to recognize symbols and signs, and know that they say "stop" or "open" when she sees them. This means the ability to
read is emerging.