8 Month Old Baby
Your baby is eight months old!
Baby has become quite the observer. He’s very aware of his surroundings and what’s happening around him. If you have a tendency to lose your cool in high-pressure situations, you'll want to dial the emotions back—baby's watching and learning. One thing that probably stresses out your eight-month-old baby is separating from you. If baby fusses when you leave him, try not to let it get to you. It’s baby’s way of telling you he misses you! And separation anxiety is actually an indicator of a good parent-child bond. Plus, baby’s caregiver will be able to distract him and stop the crying pretty quickly after you leave.
8-Month-Old Development
Baby keeps on growing—and keeps on going! It’s unbelievable how much your little one is moving these days, isn’t it?
8-Month-Old Baby Weight & Length
We know you’re wondering: 
How much should an 8-month-old weigh?
 Average weight for an 8-month-old baby is 17.5 pounds for girls. Average 8-month-old weight is 19.0 pounds for boys. Average length is 27.1 inches for girls and 27.8 inches for boys, according to the World Health Organization.
Of course, height and weight can vary widely between healthy babies, so as long as baby is growing at a healthy rate—on a steady curve on the chart at the doctor’s office—and the pediatrician doesn’t see any signs of a problem, your baby’s growth is right on track.
Five Senses
Baby still sees better close up than far away but is now able to spot things from across the room.
She can better eyeball distance and depth, making it easier to reach out and grab things.
Textures and shapes are captivating to baby! Tags and handles might seem especially exciting to touch and feel, and baby’s making the connection that different shapes are, well, different!
8-Month-Old Milestones
What Should my 8-Month-Old Be Doing?
Sitting.
 He can probably sit up by himself—but you'll still need to catch him sometimes—and is beginning to lean over to pick up toys.
Moving and grooving.
 After sitting comes rolling, crouching, twisting and rocking while kneeling. All of this is gearing up for crawling (if he hasn't yet!). When baby’s on the floor, he's in constant motion!
Getting ready to crawl.
 Some 8-month-olds who are not crawling are rolling around, “creeping” or scooting to get where they want to go. If your 8-month-old is not crawling, she’s still within the normal range; some babies crawl closer to 10 months. Others skip crawling altogether and go straight to walking!
Is My 8-Month-Old Healthy?
Having a baby seems like a never-ending search for answers to health questions. Here are some common things parents ask:
My 
8-month-old is constipated
. What should I do?
My 
8-month-old has diarrhea
. What should I do?
My 
8-month-old is vomiting
. What should I do?
My 
8-month-old has a fever
. What should I do?
8-Month-Old Baby Feeding
Now that baby’s eating solid foods—and still drinking formula or breast milk—it’s easy to get overwhelmed by how much of what he should be consuming. Just remember: The fluids are still where an eight-month-old baby gets the majority of his nutrition.
Think about it this way: Your baby needs between 750 and 900 calories per day. Four hundred to 500 of those should come from breast milk or formula. So start the meal off with nursing or a bottle of formula. And then offer baby a meal with a healthy balance of fats, carbohydrates and protein.
At eight months, you might want to add soft table foods and finger foods with different textures to baby’s menu. Have baby join the family at the table for meals—it's a great way to foster good eating habits!
Eight months old is a good time to introduce a sippy cup to your baby. At first, it might be more of a plaything than a cup, but it’s good to get your kid familiar with the sippy early. It might just have her becoming a cup-drinker easier and earlier.
How much should an 8-month-old eat?
Bottle feeding:
 How much formula for a 8-month-old? An 8-month-old baby should be consuming about 24 ounces of formula in a 24-hour period. So if baby has six bottles each day, make them each four ounces.
Breastfeeding:
 Eight-month-olds still typically nurse about every three or four hours.
Pumping:
 If you’re pumping, an 8-month-old baby needs a total of about 25 ounces of breast milk per day. So you’ll need to divide that by how many feedings your baby typically has. For example, if you feed baby about eight times per day, he should get about 3.1 ounces of breast milk at each feeding. Keep pumping each time baby has a bottle, and you should be able to keep up your breast milk supply.
Solid food:
 Baby should have three meals and two snacks per day. Try to stick to non-processed, unsweetened or unsalted foods as much as possible.
What Should an 8-Month-Old Be Eating?
Good foods for an 8-month-old baby may include:
Apples
Avocado
Barley
Carrot
Cheddar cheese
Egg yolk
Quinoa
Mango
Pasta
Pumpkin
Rice
Sweet potatoes
Tofu
Turkey
Zucchini
Finger foods for an 8-month-old baby can be any of the above, if cooked until soft (except for avocado and tofu, which don’t need to be cooked) and cut or ground into very small bits.
8-Month-Old Feeding Schedule
Photo: Megan Rubey
8-Month-Old Sleep
How much should an eight-month-old sleep?
It’s typical for an eight-month-old to sleep a total of about 15 hours each day. About 11 hours of that should be at nighttime. Your baby still probably wakes at night, but sleeps a longer stretch. Some babies even sleep through the night the full 10 to 12 hours at 8 months—if that’s your baby, lucky you!
A typical 8-month-old nap schedule includes two naps that total about three-and-a-half hours of daytime sleep.
8-Month Old Sleep Schedule
Photo: Megan Rubey
Is 8-month-old sleep regression normal?
Yes! Some babies start waking up more at night around 8 months. A lot of times they’re getting up to practice their newfound motor skills: pulling themselves up to stand and maybe even cruising. The problem is, they don’t always know how to get back down and call out to you for help! Others want extra time with mom or dad—and may be more likely to wake at night if you’re separated during the day (sorry, working moms.) So if your 8-month-old suddenly wakes up every hour or your 8-month-old is not sleeping when and how he used to, you can probably chalk it up to sleep regression.
Be as patient as you can be, reinstate some of the sleep tricks that used to work when baby was younger and 
try out some new tricks
 to try to help baby’s sleep get back to normal.
What are some tips for sleep-training an 8-month-old?
Sleep-training isn’t always easy—and it isn’t for every baby—but if successful, sleep-training will help your baby learn to self-soothe. The idea is that if he wakes up at night, baby will know how to get himself back to sleep. Here’s some 
awesome sleep-training advice
 that can help you on your way to a good night’s sleep for the whole family.
8-Month-Old Schedule
Your eight-month-old is now awake for about 10 hours per day. Beyond feedings, bathtime and play-on-the-floor time, you’re probably looking for other things to do with an 8-month-old baby. Check out this 
list of baby activities
 that will give you an idea of things to do now, as well as things to do with baby as she grows.
8-Month-Old Schedule Example
A 8-month-old’s daily schedule might look something like this.
Photo: Megan Rubey
8-Month-Old Baby Checklist / Tips
Schedule baby’s 
nine-month checkup
, if you haven’t already.
Introduce a sippy cup.
Give baby her own kitchen cupboard full of baby-safe items (wooden spoons, plasticware and measuring cups!), and put locks on the rest.
Introduce soft finger foods in very small bits for baby to easily gnash.
Take baby’s 8-month-old baby photo.