10 Month Old Baby
Your baby is 10 months old!
Life’s pretty chaotic because you have a soon-to-be toddler moving around your home and because you’re still probably having some late nights. But don’t all those kisses and hugs you’re getting from your 10-month-old baby make it all worth it? (You know, he’s doing that because you do it—you’ve set a great example for showing affection!)
10-Month-Old Development
Baby is getting bigger 
and
 smarter. Baby probably remembers where his favorite toys are and can understand when you give him simple instructions. He’s very playful and may give you cues, like clasping his hands together when he wants you to join in on the play.
10-Month-Old Baby Weight & Length
How much should a 10-month-old weigh? The average weight of a 10-month-old baby is 18.7 pounds for girls and 20.2 pounds for boys. Average length is 28.1 inches for girls and 28.9 inches for boys.
Baby may be growing about half an inch each month and gaining about .5 to 1 pound per month.
If baby doesn’t seem to be gaining much weight, you might wonder how to increase weight of a 10-month-old baby. Talk to baby’s pediatrician about his specific case but in general, slower-than-average weight gain isn’t considered problematic if baby’s gaining 
some
 weight, seems happy and healthy, and is hitting his milestones as expected. You do want the doctor to keep a close watch just in case though. You can try increasing the number of times baby has a bottle or nurses throughout the day. Always give him formula or breast milk 
before
 solids, since they’re where he should be getting most of his nutrition. You don’t want him to fill up too much on solids before he gets his all-important milk.
Five Senses
Baby’s not just able to hear everyday sounds, but he recognizes them too—your voice, his older sister’s voice, the doorbell, etc.
He may pay attention to the noises he knows are important and ignore the ones that aren’t.
Baby also knows what to do with his hands. When he has a rattle, he shakes it; when he sees a button on a toy, he pushes it.
10-Month-Old Milestones
Wondering 
What should a 10-month-old be doing?
 Milestones at this age can vary from baby to baby, but here’s what baby might be up to.
Sitting.
 Baby now can probably sit up without any support—maybe for as long as he likes.
Crawling.
 Nine months is the average age babies start to crawl, which means yours might have been doing it for as long as a month or so, or you’re still waiting for her to start. A 10-month-old not crawling is not typically a cause for concern. In fact, doctors say some perfectly healthy and well-developed babies never crawl at all—they jump straight to walking! Encourage baby to crawl by positioning her favorite toy just out of her reach—and cheer her on!
Standing.
 Baby may be able to stand upright while holding onto a piece of furniture. (And in a matter of months, she may be letting go!)
Hand skills.
 A 10-month-old baby can often pick things up using their thumb and pointer finger and have learned how to point (and anything and everything exciting) too.
Talking.
 About half of 10-month-olds say “mama” or “dada” to refer to their parents. Aw!
Is My 10-Month-Old Healthy?
Here are some frequent health questions parents of 10-month-olds have. Click through for answers and lots of helpful information.
My 
10-month-old has diarrhea
. What should I do?
My 
10-month-old is constipated
. What should I do?
My 
10-month-old is coughing
. What should I do?
My 
10-month-old is vomiting
. What should I do?
My 
10-month-old has a fever
. What should I do?
10-Month-Old Food
It’s not just you feeding baby now; he’s probably feeding 
himself
 a bit too! Your 10-month-old baby may help himself to a bottle or sippy cup or to the cut-up bananas on his high-chair tray. You never want to leave baby eating unattended though—in case of choking.
How Much Should a 10-Month-Old Eat?
Bottle feeding:
 How much formula should a month 10-month-old drink? A six- to eight-ounce bottle or cup, about four or five times per day is usually about right.
A 10-month-old refusing the bottle is a common complaint; it could be due to teething pain. Or maybe baby’s just exercising his independence! Rest assured that baby 
will
 eat if he’s healthy and hungry, but look out for signs of illness, such as fever and fussiness. And if baby 
really
 won’t eat or drink, it’s time to see the pediatrician.
Breastfeeding:
 Feedings are typically about every four to five times per day but each breastfed baby may be slightly different. What’s important is that baby seems content, your boobs seem to have been emptied (they’re soft) and baby’s gaining weight healthily.
In a 10-month-old, biting might become a breastfeeding hiccup. If your baby tries to bite you during a feeding, strictly tell your baby “no” and end the feeding, putting him down. After a few failed tries, he’ll learn that biting doesn’t fly with you.
Pumping:
 A breastfed baby needs about 25 ounces of breast milk per day. So you’ll need to divide that by how many feedings your baby typically has. So if you feed baby about five times per day, he should get about 5 ounces of breast milk at each feeding, for example.
What can a 10-month-old eat?
You can continue introducing healthy food options to your baby, sticking to one new food every three or four days. You might even start feeding him a little bit of what 
you’re
 having.
Fruits and veggies are fair game—continue to puree them or if they’re soft, cut them into tiny pieces baby can pick up and feed himself. Try avocado, banana, blueberries, peaches and cooked potatoes, sweet potatoes, carrots and green beans. Other good finger foods for a 10-month-old baby are pasta pieces, O cereal, melt-in-your mouth rice crackers and tofu. Baby might be eating meat too. Shreds of chicken and ground bits of turkey can be picked up and eaten. Beef can be cooked, pureed and served with a spoon.
Food Ideas for 10-Month-Old
Meal ideas can gradually become more varied as baby tries and likes new foods. Remember to offer baby a variety of food groups, paying attention to giving her a balance of protein, carbs and healthy fats at each meal.
Can my 10-month-old eat eggs?
Many parents of 10-month-olds ask about eggs. The advice used to be to avoid giving babies eggs before their first birthday, but that recommendation is changing. Egg is a common allergen, and the old advice said egg yolk was okay around nine months but to wait to introduce the egg white (which is more likely to cause an allergic reaction).
But newer food allergy research suggests that babies 
should not
 avoid allergenic foods entirely. And in fact, that it might benefit baby to introduce them earlier.
The short answer is: Yes, you can give baby egg yolk at ten months. As for egg whites, talk to baby’s doctor and decide together. (Baby’s allergy risk may come into play.) And as with introducing any new food, watch your baby for signs of an allergic reaction in the following days.
10-Month-Old Feeding Schedule
Photo: Megan Rubey
10-Month-Old Baby Sleep
A typical 10-month-old nap schedule consists of about two naps—one in the morning and one in the afternoon. Your baby may be sleeping as much as 11 or even 12 hours at night, perhaps with 
no waking up
. (That’s cause for celebration!)
10-Month-Old Sleep Schedule
Photo: Megan Rubey
My 10-month-old won’t sleep. Help!
Some parents complain that their 10-month-old baby is suddenly not sleeping or their 10-month-old wakes up screaming when he previously never did. In a 10-month-old, sleep regression can happen. Because baby’s learning new skills, such as crawling, pulling herself up to stand and cruising, she might decide she wants to practice them… 
in the middle of the night
. It’s hard to get back to sleep after all that activity. Other babies simply miss Mom or Dad in the middle of the night and just want to be close to you.
The good news is, babies tend to grow out of regressions like this within a month or two. Until then, use some of these moms’ 
tricks
 to try to help baby (and you!) get more restful sleep. If your 10-month-old won’t sleep through the night, it’s not necessarily a problem. But some parents are eager to get themselves a good night’s sleep! If you’re interested in helping your 10-month-old sleep longer stretches, consider sleep-training— 
here’s how to do it
.
10-Month-Old Schedule
Your 10-month-old’s day looks a lot different than it did just a few months ago. There’s a lot more moving and grooving! Looking for things to do with a 10-month-old? Baby might love to play with toys with buttons, lids, switches and knobs. Get a ball and pass it back and forth with your baby—this simple game is tons of fun for a 10-month-old! So is patty-cake; he can probably now join in and patty-cake along.
10-Month-Old Schedule Example
A 10-month-old’s daily schedule might look something like this.
Photo: Megan Rubey
10 Month Old Baby Checklist/Tips
Schedule baby’s 
12-month checkup
, if you haven’t already.
Sing simple songs to baby like “Itsy-Bitsy Spider.”
Start planning baby’s birthday party if you’re having one. You’ll want to send out invitations about a month in advance.
Take baby’s 10-month baby photo.