14-Month-Old
Your toddler is 14 months old!
Your child may be practically running or may still be summoning the courage for those first steps. Expect bumps, splats and somersaults, since depth perception and coordination take a while to develop. When your toddler tumbles, your reaction can have a big effect on hers. If you ignore minor falls—or even clap and say “nice one!”— you may avoid the tears and drama. You might also notice bowlegs, flat feet or her toes pointing out when she walks. These are common at 14 months and should disappear later.
In this article:
 
14-Month-Old Development
 
14-Month-Old Sleep
 
14-Month-Old Food
 
Activities for 14-Month-Old
 
14-Month-Old Checklist/Tips
14-Month-Old Development
Your 14-month child is gaining pounds, inches and a variety of new skills.
14-Month-Old Weight & Height
How much should a 14-month-old weigh and measure? According to the World Health Organization, average weight for a 14-month-old is 20.7 pounds for girls and 22.3 pounds for boys. Average height is 30.1 inches for girls and 30.7 inches for boys.
It's not the weight and height that matters though—it's that your child's rate of growth is healthy. Your child is probably gaining about a half pound and growing about a half inch per month. Next month, at the 15-month checkup, your pediatrician will check how he's been growing to make sure it's on track.
14-Month-Old Milestones
Your toddler's working on a ton of skills. These are a few that are probably on your mind.
• 
Walking.
 Most 14-month-olds can stand by themselves and take a few steps without help. About half are good walkers. A few ambitious tots are running and maybe even climbing steps at this age.
• 
Speech.
 Your 14-month-old is probably saying mama and dada and may even say up to six or so words.
• 
Teething.
 Some 14-month olds may be erupting their first molars. Many kids find relief from teething pain with cold teething rings. It's okay to give your child 
acetaminophen
 or ibuprofen to make her more comfortable when teething is at its worst.
• 
Potty Training.
 Wondering whether your 14-month-old is ready to 
potty train
? The answer is probably no. While there is no general consensus among doctors on when is the ideal time, they all agree: your toddler will usually give you signs of when he or she is ready. But it's never too early to start talking about the potty with your child and reading 
books
 about using it.
14-Month-Old Behavior
• 
Tantrums.
 If your sweet baby is prone to a meltdown from time to time, chalk it up to normal toddlerhood. A kid's most prone to throwing tantrums between 17 and 24 months, so you've got a good year (at least) left in dealing with these fits. In the meantime, make "stay calm" your mantra.
• 
Separation Anxiety.
 Your little one is becoming more independent every day but she may, at times, also be more sensitive to being away from you. If drop-off at day care or Grandma's house is tearful, stay consistent in your routine, assure your toddler you'll be back, and give her lots of attention after you return. Believe us: The tears stop soon after you leave.
• 
Signs of Autism.
 A common concern for parents of toddlers is whether or not their child could have an autism spectrum disorder (ASD), since 
autism
 can become apparent during the toddler and preschool years. Kids with autism may have atypical communication, social skills and behaviors; they may not hit milestones at the same age as other children, or they may lose some skills they previously had. Your child's pediatrician will likely ask you a series of questions to evaluate for signs of autism at her 18-month checkup. But if you have concerns now, it's worth an earlier discussion.
• 
Biting.
 Got a biter on your hands? Don’t worry: Biting is actually a really common phase for toddlers and won’t last too long. Since they can’t communicate emotions, particularly frustration, they bite. You’ll find that most other parents are understanding—but do make it clear to your little one that biting isn't acceptable.
14-Month-Old Health
When your 14-month-old is sick, you're going to want to consult your child's pediatrician to find the best treatment for him. A few common health questions parents have at this age are:
• My 14-month-old has a 
fever
. What should I do?
• My 14-month-old has 
diarrhea
. What should I do?
• My 14-month-old is 
throwing up
. What should I do?
14-Month-Old Sleep
At 14 months, the name of the sleep game is routine. You'll want to make sure your child has a pretty set schedule so she knows when she's expected to settle in for the night. Of course, there are always going to be days where things don't go exactly as planned.
How Much Sleep Does A 14-Month-Old Need?
Most one- to two-year-olds get 11 to 14 hours of sleep per day total, between nighttime sleep and one or two daytime naps.
Here's one example of how it might look:
14-Month-Old Sleep Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
14-Month-Old Sleep Regression
Vivid dreams, teething pains and separation anxiety are just a few reasons a 14-month-old can start to wake at night—even if she was previously a good sleeper. If you're desperate to get back to the usual sleep routine, it's important to know the root of the problem, so you can help your child get through this sleep disruption. Stick with the usual bedtime routine and set limits that will help your child get back on track.
14-Month-Old Won’t Sleep
You've probably become (very groggily) aware that you can't force kids to sleep. If your 14-month-old refuses to sleep at bedtime or at nighttime, the only thing you can do is provide her the tools she needs to start snoozing — and then let her decide to actually do it. This means giving plenty of opportunities throughout the day for active play, setting a bedtime routine that's predictable and calming, and shutting down screens at least an hour before bedtime.
14-Month-Old Food
Your 14-month-old is probably eating more new foods—but may be rejecting some favorites she previously loved. Don't let that keep you from offering them though; she's really still figuring out which foods she loves and which ones she doesn’t care for.
How Much Should My 14-Month-Old Be Eating?
A 14-month-old should be eating about three meals and two snacks per day. Give her a daily variety of foods in all food groups—vegetables, fruits, grains, protein and dairy.
Doctors say most toddlers need approximately 1,000 calories per day—give or take—or about 40 calories for each inch of their height. But definitely don't worry about keeping track! Offer your one-year-old portions about one-fourth the size of an adult portion. Then, let 
her
 choose how much she eats based on her appetite.
What To Feed A 14-Month-Old
Keep giving your 14-month-old whole milk (unless the doctor has recommended otherwise) or breast milk. A 14-month-old should get 700 mg of calcium per day. So if your kid doesn't get calcium from any other source, she'll need to drink about three 8-ounce cups of milk each day.
As far as food choices go, variety is key. Just like you, your toddler should be eating a variety of foods from all the different food groups. At this age, you don't need to restrict fats—because a 14-month-old needs them for brain development—but you should definitely avoid giving her overly salted, sweetened and buttered foods. Stick with natural, unprocessed foods as much as possible.
14-Month-Old Baby Food Ideas
Most 14-month-olds are able to pick up foods and feed themselves. But they're still at risk for choking, so continue to mash her foods or keep pieces very small and easy to chew. Foods like peanuts, whole raw carrots, and hard candies are still too hard for a 14-month-old. Grapes, cherry tomatoes, and hot dogs should be cut into very small pieces to prevent choking.
14-Month-Old Feeding Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
*A toddler's serving size is about ¼ of an adult's
Source:
 
HealthyChildren.org
14-Month-Old Won’t Eat
You probably already know that toddlers are notorious for being 
picky eaters
. But that doesn't help when meals go untouched, and you start to worry about your child's health.
Here’s the thing: every kid is going to eat something 
eventually
. Experts say to think of your toddler's nutrition in terms of weeks, not days. So if your child seems to have eaten a variety of foods over the course of the week—and there are no problems with her weight gain or growth—then everything's probably A-OK.
Activities for 14-Month-Old
Now that your 14-month-old is much more upright and mobile than she used to be, she's probably really into playing while sitting, standing and walking. Just check out her new moves!
Things To Do With A 14-Month-Old
Fun activities, games and toys for a 14-month-old are:
•Patty-cake.
 Most 14-months old will imitate you when you clap your hands.
•Push toy.
 Mini lawn mowers, shopping carts and strollers are great toys for this age, since new walkers love to show off their skills while pushing along.
•Stacking blocks.
 Your child can start to learn to build a tower with two blocks; eventually, she'll want to add even more.
•Shape sorting.
 Matching shapes to the holes in a shape-sorting toy is a fun skill for a 14-month-old to begin to master.
14-Month-Old Checklist/Tips
• Keep giving your 14-month-old a child-size cup, spoon and/or fork to practice using them during mealtime. It might be messy now, but give him time to get the hang of them.
• Your mini-me may be digging into—and emptying—everything in reach (boxes, bags, trash cans, your purse). Keep anything messy or dangerous out of reach.
• Make clean-up fun by putting on some music and singing together while you put toys away together.