16-Month-Old
Your toddler is 16 months old!
Your 16-month-old is probably in a state of constant motion, playing, kicking, walking, climbing—maybe even running. If you have a climber, it’s time to triple-check the 
childproofing
 throughout your home. It’s also a good idea to keep a rug or carpet beneath the crib in case of jailbreaks.
In this article:
 
16-Month-Old Development
 
16-Month-Old Sleep
 
16-Month-Old Food
 
Activities for a 16-Month-Old
 
16-Month-Old Baby Checklist /Tips
16-Month-Old Development
While your 16-month-old is keeping you on his toes, he continues to grow and make developmental leaps and bounds.
16-Month-Old Weight & Height
How much should a 16-month-old weigh and measure? According to the World Health organization, the mediam weight of a 16-month-old is 21.6 pounds for girls and 23.2 pounds for boys. The median height is 30.9 inches for girls and 31.6 inches for boys.
16-Month-Old Milestones
• 
Walking.
 Most 16-month-olds are walking well, which is the lead-up to next steps: climbing, running, walking backward and dancing to music.
• 
Speech.
 About half of toddlers at this age are saying at least three words, and some especially chatty tots are uttering 15 words or more.
• 
Teething.
 As early as 16 months, baby's cuspids or canines—the third bottom tooth from the front—may begin to erupt.
• 
Potty Training.
 You can continue to "talk up" the potty and what people do in there—but no pressure to potty train just yet. Your tot may start to notice it or even ask to sit on a potty chair. But it's okay if she's not really interested just yet. One medical study suggests beginning between 
27 and 32 months
 is ideal.
16-Month-Old Behavior
Your 16-month-old may be exhibiting some challenging and boundary-pushing behaviors. Tap below for advice on dealing with:
• 
Tantrums
• 
Separation anxiety
• 
Time-outs
• 
Weird behavior
16-Month-Old Health
Toddlers are constantly exposed to germs—and it doesn't help that their food and drink preference can lead to some digestive problems. Common health questions at 16 months are:
• My 16-month old has a 
fever
. What should I do?
• My 16-month-old has 
diarrhea
. What should I do? Could it be 
"toddler's diarrhea"
?
• My 16-month-old has 
constipation
. What should I do?
16-Month-Old Sleep
How Much Sleep Does A 16-Month-Old Need?
One- to 2-year-olds need 11 to 14 hours of sleep total per day. Your 16-month-old may be starting to transition to just one nap per day, so your daily schedule might be doing a little bit of rearranging. Usually, it's the morning nap that goes, and either the afternoon nap becomes longer, or bedtime is a bit earlier. Luckily, this is usually a pretty natural transition.
Here's one example of how it might go:
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
16-Month-Old Sleep Regression
So, you 16-month-old won't sleep and you're dying to make bedtime less of a struggle? For the thirty minutes before bedtime, follow the exact same rituals in the exact same order—and give him 20 minutes notice before he heads off to bed. This parent trick for changing baby’s bedtime has been shown to work: use the time he usually falls asleep naturally as your sleep routine starting point, then adjust it gradually, in 15-minute increments.
16-Month-Old Food
How Much Should My 16-Month-Old Eat and Drink?
Your 16-month-old should be eating three meals and two snacks per day. Doctors say most toddlers need approximately 1,000 calories per day—give or take—or about 40 calories for each inch of their height. If your child devours her food one day and barely touches it the next, that's totally normal. In fact, toddlers are excellent judges of just how much they should be eating. And remember: a serving of food for them is only about one-fourth the size of an adult portion.
If baby isn’t already eating with a spoon and fork sometimes, encourage her to practice.
What To Feed A 16-Month-Old
About three 8-ounce cups of whole milk per day is recommended for a 16-month-old, if your toddler doesn't get calcium from other foods. Aim for about 700 mg of calcium total per day. Give her a regular cup or a straw cup as much as possible. She should completely be off the bottle, and some doctors warn that sippy cup use (with milk or juice) could lead to tooth decay and it could inhibit speech development in some children.
Toddlers tend to get too little calcium, iron and fiber. In addition to dairy products, your child can get calcium from foods such as green leafy veggies, broccoli and tofu. Tofu can provide iron too, as can fortified cereal, dried peaches and lean ground beef. For fiber, you may offer pinto or refried beans, prunes, bananas and whole wheat pasta.
More and more, you're probably transitioning your child away from purees and other baby foods. Aim to feed the entire family well-rounded, unprocessed meals, and just mash and/or finely chop pieces for your toddler. Of course, a little bit of puree is still okay, if that's the only way he'll eat veggies.
Food ideas for a 16-month-old:
• 
24 health snack ideas for kids
• 
Healthy foods your toddler will love
• 
15 creative meal ideas for toddlers
• 
Top 10 recipes for 1-year-olds
Feeding Schedule for A 16-Month-Old Baby
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
*A toddler's serving size is about ¼ of an adult's
Source:
 HealthyChildren.org
16-Month-Old Won’t Eat
If your 16-month-old isn’t eating, it's likely just a case of picky eating. Continue to offer your child a variety of healthy foods for each meal and limit unhealthy treats. But don't start a power struggle over food. Here's more great advice on 
how to deal with picky eating
.
If your child won't eat anything 
at all
, it could be a sign of illness, and you should call the pediatrician to discuss.
Activities For A 16-Month-Old
What To Do With a 16-Month-Old
Fun activities, games and toys for a 16-month-old are:
• 
Blocks.
 About half of 16-month-olds can make a tower by stacking three blocks.
• 
Coloring.
 She should also be able to scribble, so break out the sidewalk chalk and crayons (and hide all pens and permanent markers!).
• 
Pretend objects.
 Play kitchens, toy brooms and pretend phones allow a child to imitate what she's seen her parents doing.
16-Month-Old Checklist/Tips
• 
Teething pain
? Let baby snack on frozen peas—they feel good on her gums and are surprisingly yummy, not to mention healthy.
• When you're changing your child's clothes, talk her through what's happening. Soon, she'll be able to start undressing herself and after that, she'll learn to put on clothes all by herself.
• Have a dance party! Now that your child is fully mobile, he'll want to try out some new dance moves.