27-Month-Old
Your toddler is 27 months old!
Have you noticed your child acting differently when she's outside of your home? Maybe your usually outgoing kid hides behind your legs when strangers are around, or maybe she’s an angel at daycare—and a troublemaker at home. This inconsistency is completely normal at this age. Two-year-olds adapt their behavior to the environment and toward whether or not they trust certain people. Unfortunately for you, trusting you means she’s more likely to push your buttons.
In this article:
 
27-Month-Old Development
 
27-Month-Old Sleep
 
27-Month-Old Food
 
Activities for a 27-Month-Old
 
27-Month-Old Baby Checklist/Tips
27-Month-Old Development
As your 27-month-old grows and learns new skills, you'll find her making a ton of changes.
27-Month-Old Weight & Height
Average weight for a 27-month-old is around 27.8 pounds for girls and 29.0 pounds for boys. Average height is around 34.6 inches for girls and 35.1 inches for boys, according to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
27-Month-Old Milestones
What should my 27-month-old be doing?
Here are some milestones your 27-month-old may have hit or may be working on:
• 
Speech.
 While your 27-month-old may be saying more words, they might not all be easy to understand. Two-year-olds commonly have trouble properly making certain letter sounds (
th
, 
l
 or 
s
, for example). Stuttering and mixing up the order of words within a sentence are typical too. But these aren't usually considered issues at this age—your child is still learning! A 27-month-old not talking on the other hand, probably needs some extra help. Discuss any speech concerns with your pediatrician.
• 
Potty Training.
 Haven't started potty training? The time might be now! 
One study
 found potty training was most successful with kids when started between 27 and 32 months of age. This is the time frame kids tend to be mature enough to get it, but not old enough to want to resist too much.
Potty Training.
• 
Teething.
 Your child may be cutting his second molars. Also known as the 
2-year molars
, these pearly whites tend to erupt between 20 and 33 months. And since they're big, it can be a painful process. The good news is they're the last teeth to come in until around age 6, when kids can better deal with the discomfort, so soon, you'll be done with teething woes.
27-Month-Old Behavior
• 
Love of repetition.
 Your 27-month-old does things over and over again—a little scientist at work, she’s trying to see if X always leads to Y. Predictable, repetitive results help her feel secure in the world. So even though you might be sick of reading 
Goodnight Moon
, she’s not. Read it again.
• 
Parallel play.
 Your child might not play 
with
 other kids just yet, but he may enjoy playing alongside other kids doing the same activity.
• 
Fear of strangers or places.
 You might find your 27-month-old has a fear of the doctor or the barber. It may help to bring her by the office or salon when she 
doesn't
 have an appointment, so she gets used to being there when scissors and shots aren't involved.
27-Month-Old Health
Health is always a top concern for parents, and this age is no different. Some common health questions parents of 27-month-olds have are:
• My 27-month-old has 
diarrhea
. What should I do? • My 27-month-old is 
constipated
. What should I do? • My 27-month-old is 
throwing up
. What should I do? • My 27-month old has a 
cough
. What should I do? • My 27-month-old has a 
fever
. What should I do?
27-Month-Old Sleep
Consistency is key for helping a 27-month-old have healthy sleep habits. So stick to a usual bedtime, and continue to set aside time for a daily nap.
How Much Sleep Does a 27-Month-Old Need?
Most 2-year-olds need around 11 to 12 hours of nighttime sleep, plus a nap of about 1.5 to 3 hours, for a total of about 13 to 14 hours of sleep per day.
Every kid is different, but your child's schedule may look something like this:
27-Month-Old Sleep Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
27-Month-Old Sleep Problems
Kid resisting naps? Stick to the schedule. Even if your 2-year-old seems like he wants to stop napping, he still needs up to 14 hours total sleep per day to feel fully rested. And a routine is the best way to make it happen. So make sure you're blocking out the same quiet time each day for a nap at home.
27-Month-Old Food
When feeding a 27-month-old, don't focus too much on quantity, and don't sweat it if every meal she eats isn't 
perfectly
 balanced. In fact, experts recommend looking at toddler nutrition over the course of a 
week
, not a day, when evaluating whether or not your kid is eating right.
How Much Should My 27-Month-Old Be Eating?
Two-year olds should continue to eat three meals per day, plus two snacks. Offer him a variety of foods in all food groups—vegetables, fruits, grains, protein and dairy—daily. Portion size isn't big at this age: Expect your kid to eat only ¼ to ½ as much as an adult.
Your 2-year-old should be drinking 1% or skim milk (not whole milk). Try to offer low-fat dairy products, such as yogurt and cheese too. Doctors recommend kids ages one to three get 700 mg of calcium per day. Fat should account for less than 30 percent of your toddler's daily calories.
What to Feed My 27-Month-Old
Looking for some tasty and nutritious meal inspiration? Check out these food ideas for a 2-year-old:
• 
Healthy Foods Your Toddler Will Love
• 
15 Creative Meal Ideas for Toddlers
• 
22 Easy, Tasty Kid's Lunch Ideas
• 
Yum's the Word! 24 Healthy Snacks for Kids
27-Month-Old Feeding Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
Source:
 HealthyChildren.org
27-Month-Old Eating Problems
Some 27-month-olds may seem more interested in snacks than they are in meals. If you can't beat 'em, join 'em! Make sure the snack choices you give your toddler are healthy and well balanced. That way, you'll feel good that your child is getting good nutrition throughout her day, even when she barely touches her dinner.
Activities for a 27-Month-Old
While your 27-month-old plays, he's learning and developing his cognitive and motor skills.
What to do with a 27-month-old?
Fun activities, games and toys for a 27-month-old are:
• 
Puzzles and latch boards.
 Your child will learn shapes and practice her fine motor skills by assembling and latching wood pieces into place.
• 
Push-and-pull toys.
 Toy shopping carts and mini wagons give him a chance to work on gross motor skills.
• 
Lacing.
 Wood shapes with holes for laces, or big beads with yarn are fun projects to keep 27-month-olds busy.
27-Month-Old Baby Checklist/Tips
• Try to avoid power struggles with your toddler. There are going to be a lot of things you can't force your child to do (eat, sleep and use the potty, to name a few). Save the punishments ("time out" may work at this age) for when your child really breaks the rules, such as biting.
• Transitioning to a big bed? Some parents ease the transition by letting a child nap in the bed for a few days before trying it for a whole night.
• Now that your child is getting more independent, find ways to focus on you. Make more plans to get coffee or a meal with friends, join a club or take a class in a topic or hobby that interests you.