28-Month-Old
Your toddler is 28 months old!
Your toddler is all over the place, isn’t he? Now he can run and climb and move astonishingly quickly, so even though you baby-proofed when he was little, you’ll want to do it again now. Make sure bookcases and dressers are secured to the wall, since a climbing 2-year-old can easily cause tall, heavy furniture to topple (yikes!). Sharp or dangerous objects such as knives should be secured well out of reach; 2-year-olds are curious about everything, and they can get their hands on more than you may realize.
In this article:
 
28-Month-Old Development
 
28-Month-Old Sleep
 
28-Month-Old Food
 
Activities for a 28-Month-Old
 
28-Month-Old Baby Checklist/Tips
28-Month-Old Development
You are probably finding your 28-month-old is changing quickly, developing new skills and some adorable—and sometimes challenging— personality traits.
28-Month-Old Weight & Height
Average weight for a 28-month-old is around 28.1 pounds for girls and 29.3 pounds for boys. Average height is around 35.0 inches for girls and 35.4 inches for boys, according to the US Centers for Disease Control.
28-Month-Old Milestones
What should my 28-month-old be doing?
Here are some milestones your 28-month-old toddler may have hit or may be working on:
• 
Speech.
 When it comes to language, your child is catching on quickly, learning new words at an astounding rate. Her grammar on the other hand, still needs a little work. Don’t be concerned about correcting your kid at this age. Over time, she'll learn how to use language properly by listening to others. A 28-month-old not talking may need early intervention for a little extra speech help, so talk to the pediatrician if you suspect your child is behind verbally.
• 
Potty Training.
 If your child is showing 
signs of readiness
, now may be a good time to potty train. Some parents say that potty training a 28-month-old girl and potty training a 28-month-old boy can be quite different. Boys are notorious for taking a bit longer to potty train—but that's not always the case. Start your boy learning to pee while sitting down, since good aim takes some time and practice. If you have a girl, teach her to wipe carefully from front to back.
• 
Teething.
 Your 28-month-old child may be teething with his second molars. Also known as the 
2-year molars
, these pearly whites tend to erupt between 20 and 33 months. And since they're big, it can be a painful process. The good news is they're the last teeth to come in until around age 6, when kids can better deal with the discomfort, so soon, you'll be done with teething woes.
28-Month-Old Behavior
• 
Extreme Personality Traits.
 Some 28-month-olds show fear of trying new things, and others display tons of independence.
• 
Trouble with Transitions.
 It might be tough for your kid to stop playing and get dressed, or to quit splashing in that puddle and walk the rest of the way to school. Lots of patience and verbal warnings can help you get her moving along.
• 
Separation Anxiety.
 If your child is going to preschool or daycare, he may have trouble saying goodbye to you in the mornings. Keep drop-offs short and sweet. Most kids are okay soon after their parents leave, even though they put on a pretty good show (of tears) to try to get them to stay.
• 
Little Helper.
 She probably can now follow directions—with up to four steps—and likes to pitch in and help with chores or errands.
28-Month-Old Health
Health is always a top concern for parents, and this age is no different. Some common health questions parents of 28-month-olds have are:
• My 28-month-old has 
diarrhea
. What should I do? • My 28-month-old is 
constipated
. What should I do? • My 28-month-old is 
throwing up
. What should I do? • My 28-month old has a 
cough
. What should I do? • My 28-month-old has a 
fever
. What should I do?
28-Month-Old Sleep
Consistency is key for a 28-month-old's sleep routine. Try to stick with usual bedtimes and naptimes to keep crankiness and restlessness at bay. When something changes the routine —a special event that runs through naptime, for example—go with the flow. But try to get back on track as soon as you can.
How Much Sleep Does a 28-Month-Old Need?
Most 2-year-olds need around 11 to 12 hours of nighttime sleep, plus a nap of about 1.5 to 3 hours, for a total of about 13 to 14 hours of sleep per day.
Every kid is different, but your child's schedule may look something like this:
28-Month-Old Sleep Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
28-Month-Old Sleep Problems
If your 28-month-old is no longer in a crib, you may find yourself with a middle-of-the-night visitor. Experts agree it's a good idea to kindly but firmly insist your child go back to sleep in his own bed. (Even though it may be tempting to allow him into yours—just this once.) Lead him back to his room, tuck him in and comfort him before leaving him alone to fall asleep. This sets the precedent that he needs to fall asleep on his own, in his own space. And it can help everyone in the family more likely to get a full night's sleep most nights.
28-Month-Old Food
Your 28-month-old is probably pretty good at feeding herself. She probably can use a fork fairly successfully, but spoons are a little trickier. It will be a while before she can feed herself a bowl of soup without making a huge mess.
How Much Should My 28-Month-Old Be Eating?
Two-year olds should continue to eat three meals per day, plus two snacks. Offer him a variety of foods in all food groups—vegetables, fruits, grains, protein, and dairy—daily. Portion size isn't big at this age: Expect your kid to eat only ¼ to ½ as much as an adult.
Your 2-year-old should be drinking 1% or skim milk (not whole milk). Try to offer low-fat dairy products, such as yogurt and cheese too. Doctors recommend kids ages one to three get 700 mg of calcium per day. Fat should account for less than 30 percent of your toddler's daily calories.
Remember he’s still prone to choking, so avoid potentially hazardous foods such as whole grapes and raw carrots, and keep cutting his food into tiny pieces.
What to Feed My 28-Month-Old
Looking for some tasty and nutritious meal inspiration? Check out these food ideas for a 2-year-old:
• 
Healthy Foods Your Toddler Will Love
• 
15 Creative Meal Ideas for Toddlers
• 
22 Easy, Tasty Kid's Lunch Ideas
• 
Yum's the Word! 24 Healthy Snacks for Kids
28-Month-Old Feeding Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
Source:
 HealthyChildren.org
28-Month-Old Eating Problems
Want to get your 28-month-old to eat more healthy food? Get him involved in the process. Give him choices of what to make for dinner; then plan the meal together. Go grocery shopping together and let him pick out the fruits and veggies. Encourage him to help prep (the non-dangerous parts of) the meal. Kids tend to love to stir ingredients or help their parents sprinkle in seasonings.
Activities for a 28-Month-Old
Sure, there are fancy kids' play spaces, state-of-the-art toys and learning apps, but truthfully a 28-month-old doesn't need all that. Sometimes, the best activities are the simplest ones.
What to do with a 28-month-old?
Fun activities, games and toys for a 28-month-old are:
• 
Blocks.
 Your child may still love building with blocks. The towers are getting bigger and bigger, along with her attention span.
• 
Books.
 Don't be surprised if your 28-month-olds asks you to read a favorite book over and over, instead of choosing something new. Kids this age still 
love
 repetition.
• 
Everyday objects.
 Together you and your 28-month-old can set up a backyard obstacle course using old water bottles for cones. Build a fort out of blankets and pillows. Or build a playhouse out of a large cardboard box.
28-Month-Old Baby Checklist/Tips
• Limit TV time to 15-minute increments and two hours or less total per day. Your child learns more by playing and having new experiences than he does by zoning out in front of the TV.
• Play date? Invite just one friend at a time. At age 2, a two-person play date is an ideal size.
• Let your toddler help you in the kitchen. This will encourage healthy eating habits and help her practice fine motor skills.