33-Month-Old
Your toddler is 33 months old!
Say cheese! By 33 months, most children have their full set of baby teeth, which means if your child hasn’t seen a dentist yet, now’s a good time to schedule an appointment. In the meantime, help her take care of her teeth. She might want to brush on her own, but she’s not coordinated enough to do it right, so make sure you get a chance to scrub each tooth surface for her after she takes a turn.
In this article:
 
33-Month-Old Development
 
33-Month-Old Sleep
 
33-Month-Old Food
 
Activities for a 33-Month-Old
 
33-Month-Old Baby Checklist/Tips
33-Month-Old Development
As your 33-month-old grows, he's also becoming more and more independent.
33-Month-Old Weight & Height
Average weight for a 33-month-old is around 29.7 pounds for girls and 30.8 pounds for boys. Average height is around 36.4 inches for girls and 36.8 inches for boys, according to the US Centers for Disease Control.
33-Month-Old Milestones
What should my 33-month-old be doing?
Here are some milestones your 33-month-old may have hit or may be working on:
• 
Speech.
 Thirty-three-month-old language development seems to happen quickly. Kids this old may know around 450 words, and by the time they turn three will be saying three- and four-word sentences.
• 
Self-Care.
 Over the next few months, your child will probably develop the ability to undress and feed herself.
• 
Teething.
 As your child cuts his last baby teeth—the 
second molars
—he may experience a little pain and drooling and may wake at night or be irritable.
• 
Potty training.
 You may be in full swing of potty training. If your kid is wearing underwear but isn't 100 percent making it to the toilet just yet, going 
anywhere
 can feel stressful. Try not to plan long outings for now, and always bring along wipes and a change of clothes just in case.
33-Month-Old Behavior
• 
Imaginary friends.
 Having an imaginary friend is not cause for concern. In fact, having a friend of her own invention helps a child make sense of the world. You can play along, but be careful not to take over your child's pretending.
• 
Refusing to listen.
 Told your 33-month-old not to do that thing? A million times? If he's doing it anyway, he's just displaying typical 2-year-old behavior. Make the rules and consequences clear (and fitting—a 2-year-old won't understand being grounded for a week, but he will understand a two-minute time-out), and follow through when he breaks them. It's a long road, but eventually the rules will stick.
33-Month-Old Health
Health is always a top concern for parents, and this age is no different. Some common health questions parents of 33-month-olds have are:
• My 33-month-old has 
diarrhea
. What should I do? • My 33-month-old is 
constipated
. What should I do? • My 33-month-old is 
throwing up
. What should I do? • My 33-month old has a 
cough
. What should I do? • My 33-month-old has a 
fever
. What should I do?
33-Month-Old Sleep
Why is it that parents 
love
 to sleep but our kids, who need more of it, seem to hate it? Even if your kid resists, a good night's sleep (and a good nap) are essential for her brain and body.
How Much Sleep Does a 33-Month-Old Need?
Most 2-year-olds need around 11 to 12 hours of nighttime sleep, plus a nap of about 1.5 to 3 hours, for a total of about 13 to 14 hours of sleep per day.
Every kid is different, but your child's schedule may look something like this:
33-Month-Old Sleep Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
33-Month-Old Sleep Problems
It's common for a 33-month-old to have developed a fear of the dark. Experts advise listening to your child express his fear with empathy and then helping him feel safer. If that means an extra night-light or telling him his stuffed T. rex will protect him, so be it.
33-Month-Old Food
Your 33-month-old's appetite may go through ups and downs. Some days she's a little vacuum and others, she barely touches her meals. That's okay, as long as the doctor says her growth, weight gain and development are on track. Think of her overall nutrition over the course of a week, not just by the day.
How Much Should My 33-Month-Old Be Eating?
Two-year-olds should continue to eat three meals per day, plus two snacks. Offer him a variety of foods in all food groups—vegetables, fruits, grains, protein and dairy—daily. Portion size isn't big at this age: Expect your kid to eat only ¼ to ½ as much as an adult.
Your 2-year-old should be drinking 1 percent or skim milk (not whole milk). Try to offer low-fat dairy products, such as yogurt and cheese too. Doctors recommend kids ages 1 to 3 get 700 mg of calcium per day. Fat should account for less than 30 percent of your toddler's daily calories.
What to Feed My 33-Month-Old
Looking for some tasty and nutritious meal inspiration? Check out these food ideas for a 2-year-old:
• 
Healthy Foods Your Toddler Will Love
• 
15 Creative Meal Ideas for Toddlers
• 
22 Easy, Tasty Kid's Lunch Ideas
• 
Yum's the Word! 24 Healthy Snacks for Kids
33-Month-Old Feeding Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
Source:
 HealthyChildren.org
33-Month-Old Eating Problems
Picky eating can sometimes be remedied with a little creative presentation. Consider cutting sandwiches into cool shapes using a cookie cutter, making funny faces or fun scenes with vegetables, or creating fruit-and-veggie smoothies or ice pops for your child. When they look like playthings, healthy foods might seem more appealing.
Activities for a 33-Month-Old
As your child gets older, her play may become more imaginative, and you may notice she's mature enough for more complex toys and activities.
What to do with a 33-month-old?
Fun activities, games and toys for a 33-month-old are:
• 
Counting games and songs.
 By 33 months, your child probably already has a basic understanding of numbers, but it’s going to take some time for him to master counting. So count everything you can together.
• 
Board games.
 Simple, introductory games like Candy Land, Chutes and Ladders and Memory are good for this age.
• 
Interlocking building blocks.
 If she hasn't already, your child is probably ready to graduate from simple wooden blocks to Duplos or Mega Bloks.
• 
Collage making.
 Looking for rainy day fun? Have your child point out his favorite photos in a few old magazines. Cut them out for him and, together, glue them on paper to create a collage.
33-Month-Old Baby Checklist/Tips
• Convincing your toddler to wear—or keep on—a pair of sunglasses may be a struggle. Instead, buy her a wide-brimmed hat (with a chin strap!) that's more likely to stay in place on sunny days.
• It's okay if your potty-trained child still wears a diaper or nighttime underwear to bed. Some kids learn quickly to stay dry during the night. Others take years to develop the physical readiness to recognize when they have to go during their sleep.