35-Month-Old
Your toddler is 35 months old!
Don’t freak out if you catch your child lying—it doesn't mean she's destined for a life of crime. A child’s first lie is actually a significant developmental milestone. To lie, a child needs good verbal skills, plus enough imagination to be able to invent an alternate reality. She probably gets that telling the truth would disappoint someone, which shows an understanding of expectations and emotions. So instead of punishing your child for lying, try gently confronting her with the truth. (“I see cookie crumbs on your face,” for instance.) Talk briefly about the importance of telling the truth, but don’t lecture her too much.
In this article:
 
35-Month-Old Development
 
35-Month-Old Sleep
 
35-Month-Old Food
 
Activities for a 35-Month-Old
 
35-Month-Old Baby Checklist/Tips
35-Month-Old Development
Your growing 35-month-old is mastering lots of new skills and getting more independent by the minute.
35-Month-Old Weight & Height
Average weight for a 35-month-old is around 30.4 pounds for girls and 31.4 pounds for boys. Average height is around 36.9 inches for girls and 37.3 inches for boys, according to the US Centers for Disease Control.
35-Month-Old Milestones
What should my 35-month-old be doing?
Here are some milestones your 35-month-old may have hit or may be working on:
• 
Speech.
 Your child probably says hundreds of words and speaks more clearly than ever before. He's starting to grasp the different pronouns (he, she, we, it, etc.) What a little smarty-pants!
• 
Motor skills.
 Your 35-month-old child can probably put on at least one piece of clothing, stand on one foot and draw a straight(ish) line. She may now have the coordination required to pedal a tricycle— if not, she might scoot along with her feet on the ground. She'll get it with practice.
• 
Potty training.
 When it comes to potty training, 35-month-olds are a mixed bag. Some are trained, some are in the process, and some aren't quite ready yet. If your child is resisting the potty, hold the urge to put on the pressure. While you may be in a hurry to ditch the diapers, pressing could actually cause more harm than good. It may benefit everyone to put a pause on potty training for a few weeks before trying again.
35-Month-Old Behavior
• 
Independence.
 You may be able to (finally!) convince your child to play on his own for short stretches, which could feel a bit freeing for you.
• 
Playing favorites.
 Your child may be acting as if she likes you better than daddy or vice versa. Don’t get offended—it's just a phase, and the roles will reverse at some point.
35-Month-Old Health
Health is always a top concern for parents, and this age is no different. Some common health questions parents of 35-month-olds have are:
• My 35-month-old has 
diarrhea
. What should I do? • My 35-month-old is 
constipated
. What should I do? • My 35-month-old is 
throwing up
. What should I do? • My 35-month old has a 
cough
. What should I do? • My 35-month-old has a 
fever
. What should I do?
35-Month-Old Sleep
You may notice your 35-month-old is starting to sleep a little less during his daytime nap. That's totally normal. Most kids this age do still need a nap, but may be gradually and naturally weaning themselves off them.
How Much Sleep Does a 35-Month-Old Need?
Most 2-year-olds need around 11 to 12 hours of nighttime sleep, plus a nap of about 1.5 to 3 hours, for a total of about 13 to 14 hours of sleep per day.
Every kid is different, but your child's schedule may look something like this:
35-Month-Old Sleep Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
35-Month-Old Sleep Problems
It's common for 35-month-olds to try to put off bedtime as long as possible. While it's sometimes adorable that your child wants you to read five more stories and give you 10 more kisses, it's also exhausting. To avoid letting it get out of control, stay calm and remind her of the bedtime routine. Set limits on just how many times you come back to her bedroom and how many extra little things you'll do for her before she finally goes to sleep.
35-Month-Old Food
The biggest things to remember when feeding your 35-month-old is that he's probably the best judge of his appetite and that he needs to eat a variety of healthy foods, just like you do. Salty and sugary snacks should be saved for special occasions.
How Much Should My 35-Month-Old Be Eating?
Two-year-olds should continue to eat three meals per day, plus two snacks. Offer her a variety of foods in all food groups—vegetables, fruits, grains, protein and dairy—daily. Portion size isn't big at this age: Expect your kid to eat only ¼ to ½ as much as an adult.
Your 2-year-old should be drinking 1 percent or skim milk (not whole milk). Try to offer low-fat dairy products, such as yogurt and cheese too. Doctors recommend kids ages 1 to 3 get 700 mg of calcium per day. Fat should account for less than 30 percent of your toddler's daily calories.
What to Feed My 35-Month-Old
Looking for some tasty and nutritious meal inspiration? Check out these food ideas for a 2-year-old:
• 
Healthy Foods Your Toddler Will Love
• 
15 Creative Meal Ideas for Toddlers
• 
22 Easy, Tasty Kid's Lunch Ideas
• 
Yum's the Word! 24 Healthy Snacks for Kids
35-Month-Old Feeding Schedule
Photo: Smart Up Visuals
Source:
 HealthyChildren.org
35-Month-Old Eating Problems
Mealtime with a 35-month-old can easily become a power struggle—don't let it! Offer nutritious food, and keep serving small amounts of new foods. But don't force your child to eat or expect him to love anything you give him. Even if he was crazy about it yesterday. And remember, it can take up to 20 instances of exposure to a food before a child develops a liking for it.
Activities for a 35-Month-Old
Give your 35-month-old plenty of time to play freely and to play outside. Play helps her learn and keeps her body active and healthy.
What to do with a 35-month-old?
Fun activities, games and toys for a 35-month-old are:
• 
Tricycle.
 Your 35-month-old will soon be developmentally ready to master pedaling, if he isn't already. And yes, it's important he wear a helmet while riding, even though he seems so close to the ground.
• 
Collecting.
 Kids this age love to collect acorns, pine cones, rocks, action figures…you name it. This is a fun activity to do together and can help her learn about the world around her and practice sorting and organization. If it's something low-cost or free, even better!
• 
Pretend play.
 Playing house, school, grocery store or kitchen helps 35-month-olds understand different roles and can help them develop emotionally.
35-Month-Old Baby Checklist/Tips
• Handle weird phases (like barking like a dog!) like they’re no big deal, so long as they don’t interfere with normal activities. Just explain that it’s a thing he can do at some times, but can’t at others. And get it on video, of course.
• Going to the grocery store or a Target run with your 35-month-old can be an ordeal. She wants every cool-looking thing she sees! And as much as you want to make her happy, saying no can set the precedent that she won't get everything she whines or begs for.
• Remember: Next month is your child's 
3-year-checkup
. Call the doctor and make an appointment if you didn't at your last visit.